genetic defect spotted in 3-day-old embryo researchers diagnosed a genetic defect in a three-day-old mouse embryo in an experiment directly applicable to humans . prenatal diagnosis of genetic defects as early as the sixth week of pregnancy is increasingly common today . but the mouse experiment at a medical research council laboratory in london shows 0 genetic defects can_be detected three_days after conception using a new american-developed gene-copying technique . the experiment , applicable to many genetic disorders , involved beta-thalassemia , a severe blood anemia resulting_from a missing hemoglobin gene . it 's an inherited human disorder that 's been duplicated in mice . in the experiment , mice with the defective gene were mated . three_days later , before the new embryo had become implanted in the uterus , it was washed out of the mother mouse . the embryo had progressed only to a clump of eight identical cells . one cell was teased out , and its dna extracted . using the new technique developed_by cetus corp. , called the polymerase chain reaction , the scientists rapidly made millions of copies of the section of dna that ordinarily contains the hemoglobin gene , providing enough copies 0 to test . a genetic probe showed 0 the hemoglobin gene was missing , the researchers report 0 in the medical journal lancet . in the report , two molecular biologists suggest 0 such embryo diagnosis can_be used by couples at high risk of passing a genetic defect to a child . for_example , infertile couples who have the woman 's eggs fertilized in the test tube usually have several eggs fertilized at a time . when the fertilized cells divide to eight cells , a single cell from each embryo can_be tested for genetic defects . a healthy embryo can_be picked for implantation and defective ones discarded . or in other couples , the embryo could_be temporarily taken out and tested three_days after conception and returned if healthy , or discarded if not . yeast adapted to make gene-spliced drugs an oil company finds a sideline in the microscopic world of yeast . in the early_1970s , when the `` world food crisis '' was a major worry , phillips_petroleum co. , like several other big companies , began developing `` single-cell protein , '' edible protein made by microbes feeding on non-edible materials . phillips found and improved a yeast , `` pichia pastoris , '' which made protein from natural gas-derived alcohol . it also could convert glucose from farm wastes into edible protein . single-cell protein never panned out , and most companies abandoned such research . but phillips persisted , calling in scientists from the salk institute . they_'ve now adapted the yeast to making genetically_engineered drugs . like the bacteria used by genetic engineers , the yeast can take in human genes and churn out human proteins for medical use . but the yeast genetic apparatus is more like that of animals than the bacterial genetic apparatus . thus , the proteins from the yeast are molecularly more like human proteins than those from bacteria . the oil company claims 0 its yeast system also is better_than bacteria at high-volume production of genetically_engineered drugs . chiron corp. , an emeryville , calif. , biotechnology firm , is seeing if the phillips yeast can_be used to make its genetically_engineered human proteins . peeking inside arteries from outside the body visualizing blood vessels without poking catheters into the body may come_out of research at at&t bell laboratories . strokes , heart attacks , leg pains -lrb- intermittent claudication -rrb- and other problems stem_from clogging of the arteries by cholesterol-rich deposits . at present , doctors can see_how badly an artery is clogged only by inserting a thin catheter into the artery and injecting a fluid that makes the arteries visible on x-rays . a non-invasive method is being researched by biophysicist lynn jelinski at the at&t unit . it relies_on the fact_that certain atoms give off detectable signals when subjected to an intense magnetic field . it 's the same phenomenon used in the new mri -lrb- magnetic resonance imaging -rrb- scanners being used in hospitals in place of x-ray scans . in the bell labs experiments , an mri-type of machine , synchronized with the heartbeat via an electrocardiogram , rapidly flashes a magnetic field on and off as blood passes a certain point in a vessel . the rapidly flashing return signals from excited hydrogen atoms in the blood give a `` stop-motion '' movie of the blood-filled vessel , -lrb- like the `` stop-motion '' seen in disco dancers when a strobe light is flashing -rrb- . the scientists have experimented on the tiny neck arteries of rats . they_'ve been_able to measure the minuscule movements of the artery wall as the beating heart raises and lowers the pressure of the flowing blood , a first for such tiny blood vessels , they report 0 in nature , a scientific journal . they now are experimenting with measuring blood flow . the ultimate hope is that the technique could identify diseased vessels . odds and ends tests on 2,800-year-old mummies from chile indicate 0 ancient wood fires did_n't produce dioxins or dibenzofurans , contradicting a theory 0 the two pollutants today are coming from wood burning , general_electric co. reports 0 in environmental science & technology magazine ... . almost 40_% of schizophrenic men have an impaired sense of smell vs. fewer_than 10_% of schizophrenic women , reports 0 the american journal of psychiatry .