early this century , diamond mining in the magnificent dunes where the namib desert meets the atlantic ocean was a day at the beach . men would crawl in the sand looking_for shiny stones . it was as easy as collecting sea shells at malibu . men are still combing the beach with shovels and hand brushes , searching_for that unusual glint . but only after a fleet of 336 gargantuan earthmoving vehicles belonging to de_beers consolidated mines ltd. , the world 's diamond kingpins , do their work . last_year , 43 million tons of desert were moved from one dune to another to recover 934,242 carats , which comes to 46 tons of sand per carat , or one-fifth gram . oh yes , the atlantic was also pushed back 300 yards . `` if there 's diamonds out there , we_'ll get to them , ''_says les johns , de_beers 's engineering manager . here , wedged between shifting dunes and pounding waves at the world 's most inhospitable diamond dig , lies the earth 's most precious jewel box . thanks to centuries of polishing by mother nature -- first in the gentle current of the orange river that carried the stones from south_africa 's interior , then in the cold surf of the ocean , and finally in the coarse sands of the desert -- 98 % of the diamonds uncovered are of gem quality . while other mines might yield more carats , a higher percentage of them go to industrial use . since this treasure chest is too big to fit in a bank vault , it has_been turned into one . months after railway worker zacharias lewala first picked_up a diamond from the sand in 1908 , the german colonialists who controlled namibia proclaimed a wide swath of the desert -- about 200 miles north from the orange river and 60 miles inland from the atlantic -- a restricted area , a designation normally reserved for military operations . when the germans lost world_war i , they lost namibia to south_africa and the diamonds to ernest oppenheimer , patriarch of anglo american corp. and de_beers . today , no_one gets in or out of the restricted area without de_beers 's stingy approval . the mining zone has thus remained one of the most desolate places in africa . ghost towns dot the namib dunes , proving 0 diamonds are n't forever . oranjemund , the mine headquarters , is a lonely corporate oasis of 9,000 residents . jackals roam the streets at night , and gemsbok , hardy antelope with long straight horns , wander in from the desert to drink from water sprinklers . on most days , the desert 's heat and the cool of the ocean combine to create a mist like a damp rag . the wind , stinging with sand , never seems to stop . still , miners from all parts of namibia as_well as professional staff from de_beers 's head offices in south_africa and london keep coming . and oranjemund boasts attractions besides diamonds . there_are six video rental shops , three restaurants , one cinema and 34 sports and recreation clubs for everything from cricket to lawn bowling . the pride of oranjemund is the 18-hole golf course -- with the largest sand trap in the world . last_year , when the rising orange river threatened to swamp the course , the same engineers who are pushing back the atlantic rushed to build a wall 0 to hold back the flood . `` nothing is too good for our golf course , ''_says tony george , a mining engineer . despite fears 0 the mine may_be partially nationalized by the new namibian government following next_month 's elections freeing the country from south_african control , de_beers engineers are working to extend the mine 's productive life for another 25 years , from the current estimate of 10 . huge machines that look as though they came from the star wars desert-battle scene lumber among the dunes . mechanized vacuum cleaners probe the sand like giant anteaters ; a whirring ferris wheellike excavator , with buckets instead of seats , chews through layers of compacted sand ; tracks and conveyor belts , shuttling sand to the screening plants , criss-cross the beach . then there_is the artifical sea wall , 600 yards long and 60 yards thick , jutting into the ocean . made of sand , it receives around-the-clock maintainence against the battering waves . when the mining in front of the wall is complete , it is moved northward . a companion jetty that helps hold back the sea looks_like a rusting junkyard . engineers first used concrete blocks to bolster the barrier , but the ocean tossed them aside like driftwood . then someone decided to try broken-down earthmoving equipment that , inexplicably , held against the waves . `` the caterpillar people are n't too happy when they see their equipment used like that , '' shrugs mr. george . `` they figure 0 it 's not a very_good advert . '' despite all these innovations , most of the diamonds are still found in the sand swept away by the men wielding shovels and brushes -- the ignominiously named `` bedrock sweepers '' who toil in the wake_of the excavators . laboring in blue and gray overalls , they_are supposed_to concentrate_on cleaning out crevices , and not strain their eyes looking_for diamonds . but should they spy one , the company will pay a bonus equal to one-third its value . for these workers at the bottom of the mine 's pay scale , this is usually enough to overcome the temptation to steal -- a crime that could earn them up to 15_years in jail . still , employees do occasionally try_to smuggle out a gem or two . one man wrapped several diamonds in the knot of his tie . another poked a hole in the heel of his shoe . a food caterer stashed stones in the false bottom of a milk pail . none made it past the body searches and x-rays of mine security .