we read with interest robert tomsho 's sept._28 page-one_article on robert redford -lrb- `` the sundance kid gets little respect around sundance '' -rrb- . misunderstanding conversations with us , mr. tomsho argued_that mr. redford 's environmental views are at_odds with utah residents . this may_have been true 10_years ago , but times have changed , even in utah . mr. redford no_longer stands out as an extremist . he has not changed , but those around him have . many of his views on the protection of wilderness areas , rivers and canyons are now embraced by mainstream , conservative utahans . recently , some 60 environmental and outdoor groups representing such divergent points of view as the sierra club , the league of women voters and the national rifle association joined together to request a reassessment of the environmentally unsound central utah project . while utah is not_yet a haven for environmentalism , public views toward the environment have significantly improved . in one of the most conservative , republican states in the entire nation , the greening of robert redford 's neighbors is the real story that mr. tomsho missed . sammye meadows sam rushforth gary bryner heber city , utah if mr. redford wanted to be accepted by the people of utah , he should have_taken an advisory role instead of one of forcing his personal preferences . furthermore , his actions imply that it is too damaging or costly for society to provide jobs through power-plant construction , coal mining or to build roads for public safety because of the adverse impact_on the environment , but it is just fine and dandy for him to transform a mountain high in the wasatch range into a ski resort . it astounds me 0 he can rationalize his self-righteous and greedy actions in utah . an excellent environmental actor he is . david vranian m.b.a. student university of colorado boulder , colo . mr. redford , like it or not , is like a braking system on a runaway truck , kind_of slowing it down into control . he 's rich , famous and intelligent , and has the time 0 to do_something that not even the federal_government will do . mr. redford is slowing down a mindless , speeding maniac known_as the progress of mankind . personally , i_'m glad 0 there_are people like him around 0 to slow_down the profit takers , and those_who are in such a blind hurry for something that may appear to benefit them in the immediate future , not caring about the long-range implications . ron dyer