first , the somewhat affected idealism of the 1960s . then , the all-too-sincere opportunism of the 1970s and 1980s . what now ? to judge from novels that mirror the contemporary scene , we_'re back in the age of anxiety . where '60s dropouts professed to scorn middle-class life and ambitious yuppies hoped to leave it far behind as they scaled the upper reaches of success , it now seems that so_many people feel 0 they_'re slipping between the cracks , that middle-class life is viewed with nostalgia or outright longing . lisa zeidner 's third novel , `` limited_partnerships '' -lrb- north point press , 256 pages , $_18.95 -rrb- is a stylish , funny and thoughtful look_at the way_0 love relationships are affected_by the pressures of money , or , more specifically , the lack_of it . nora worth and malcolm dewitt , 33 and 39 respectively , live together in a townhouse in a transitional philadelphia neighborhood . malcolm , a former film-maker turned architect , has just seen his first big chance at a lucrative commission turn to dust with the arrest of his shady , obnoxious client , a fly-by-night real_estate developer . nora , who still has artistic aspirations , knows 0 she is lucky to be working as a food stylist , prepping pies , burgers , frosty cold drinks and other comestibles to look as appetizing as possible in front of the camera . after all , she reasons , `` there_were housewives with nikons and degrees from cooking schools in france who would kill for her job . '' but nora and malcolm feel trapped . they seem to be having the `` worst of both worlds : artistic work with none of art 's integrity and no control over the finished product ; self-employment without fun or profit . '' it 's a downbeat , `` thirtysomething '' world , in which bright , still youngish people are engaged_in a glossy version of day labor , doing free-lance , semi-professional work that brings little satisfaction or security but that they know 0 they should_be grateful to do . uncertainty dogs every aspect of their_lives . malcolm faces bankruptcy and an irs audit , but nora finds an_extra $ 30,000 in her bank account , suddenly increasing her available funds some fifteenfold . while she is wondering whether to live it up , and do_something even more dramatic , say get married , her life is further complicated by the reappearance of an old flame , david , a film critic and actor who always seems to be just on the brink of stardom . in novels of an earlier vintage , david would_have represented excitement and danger ; malcolm , placid , middle-class security . the irony in this novel is that neither man represents a `` safe '' middle-class haven : nora 's decision is between emotional excitement and emotional security , with no firm economic base anywhere . the characters confront a world in which it seems increasingly difficult to find a `` middle way '' between the extremes of success and failure , wealth and poverty . in making malcolm and nora such wonderfully representative specimens of their class and generation , ms. zeidner has somewhat neglected the task of making them distinctively individual characters . the humor of the story owes much to the fact_that no hearts -lrb- even the characters ' own -rrb- are_likely to bleed for the plight of health-food eaters . but readers may well feel the pangs of recognition . in any_case , the foundering middle classes are n't the only ones in trouble -- or whose troubles provide material for fiction . `` rascal money '' -lrb- contemporary books , 412 pages , $ 17.95 -rrb- , a novel by consultant and business analyst joseph r. garber , tells the story of an innovative , well-run , widely respected computer manufacturing company called pegasys as it faces a hostile_takeover attempt by aiw , a much_smaller corporation that is so incompetently managed as to constitute a standing joke in the business world . patrician , dynamic scott thatcher , founder and head of pegasys , initially finds the takeover_threat risible . but , as he and his skilled team soon discover , they_'re up against two factors 0 they had n't counted on : first , a business climate in which a failing company with few assets and many debts can borrow against the assets of the successful company 0 it hopes to_acquire in order to finance the takeover ; second , that standing behind aiw is a sinister consortium of much bigger , shadier and shrewder foreign interests secretly providing the money and muscle for the deal . mr. garber manages to invest this tale of financial wars with the colorful characters and fast-paced action of a suspense novel . and like a spy or mystery story , this novel has strong elements of allegory , as the good and evil forces battle it out . mr. garber depicts these moral qualities with the broad brush strokes of a satire that occasionally descends to the realm of cliched caricatures . standard-issue portraits of flaky californians , snobbish homosexuals and neanderthal union_leaders undermine the force of the author 's perceptions . yet the heavy-handedness of the satire also can_be effective in a book like this : if the head of aiw were not portrayed as an utterly contemptible , malicious dolt , we would not much care whether his schemes were defeated , and would not be so diverted in the process . ms. rubin is a free-lance writer based in los_angeles .