medieval philosophers used to hold the sensible belief_that it was more perfect to exist than not to exist , and that to exist as a matter of necessity was most perfect of all . now , only god exists as a matter of absolute necessity ; it is built_into his nature . but since the time of darwin , we humans could at_least claim a sort of natural necessity for the existence of our species . are n't we , after all , the inevitable culmination of that stately pageant called evolution ? if mutation and natural selection slowly but surely give rise to more and more advanced forms of life , then it was only a matter of eons before splendid beings endowed with reason , self-awareness and taste shimmered onto the scene . now along comes stephen jay gould to dash this flattering illusion . his credentials are excellent for the task . star lecturer at_harvard , author of numerous popular books on science , and scourge of the creationist lobby , mr. gould is perhaps the world 's most eminent evolutionary theorist . yet he puts quite a twist on the old story handed down from darwin . for him , natural history is anything but a gradual , predictable march from primordial slime to human consciousness ; it is a careening , chaotic affair in which the emergence of a featherless biped was a one-in-a-million shot . in `` wonderful life : the burgess shale and the nature of history '' -lrb- norton , 326 pages , $ 19.95 -rrb- , mr. gould makes his case for `` the awesome improbability of human evolution . '' the argument turns on the discovery in 1909 of an amazing fossil quarry high in the canadian rockies called the burgess shale . here , in an area smaller_than a city block , lay buried traces of countless weird creatures that had frolicked more_than 500_million years_ago -- creatures whose anatomical variety far exceeded what can_be found in all the world 's oceans today . such an embarrassment of riches was inconceivable to the man_who discovered the burgess shale , one charles doolittle walcott . the received darwinian wisdom of the day said that animals living so_long ago must_be simple in design , limited in scope and ancestral to contemporary species . accordingly , the hidebound traditionalist reconstructed hypothetical organisms from the burgess fossils in such a way that they could_be shoehorned into familiar categories . it was not until the early_1970s that cambridge prof. harry whittington and two sharp graduate students began to publish a reinterpretation of the burgess shale . by making clever inferences about how the squashed and distorted fossil remains corresponded to three-dimensional structures , this trio was able_to piece together a series of wondrous beasties quite unlike anything currently on the planet . one was so fantastic in appearance , 0 it was dubbed hallucigenia . would that mr. gould 's minute descriptions of these creatures was always so colorful . a good deal of the book is boring , particularly the endless allusions to high and pop culture and the frequent jokes festooning the text . these turns do not provide sufficient relief from sentences like , `` most modern chelicerates have six uniramous appendages on the prosoma . '' interest picks up , though , when mr. gould gets around to discussing the meaning of the burgess oddities for the theory of evolution . not long after the appearance of life , evidently , there was an explosive proliferation in the number_of animal designs seen on the earth . the vast_majority of them , however , were wiped_out by a succession of environmental upheavals that were too sudden and catastrophic for the normal rules of natural selection to operate . consequently , the winnowing process was like a lottery `` in which each group -lcb- held -rcb- a ticket unrelated to its anatomical virtues . '' so_much for survival of the fittest . so_much , too , for the notion_that we humans triumphed in the darwinian struggle by evolving big brains . our mammalian forerunners lucked out through the extraterrestrial impact that did in the dinosaurs because_they were small , not smart . if anyone has difficulty imagining a world in which history went merrily on without us , mr. gould sketches several . in one , birds are the dominant carnivores ; in another the seas abound with `` little penises . '' back when the burgess fauna were flourishing , it seems 0 , human evolutionary hopes hung on the survival of a little worm with a backbone called pikaia . mr. gould finds this oddly exhilarating ; like an existentialist of old , he views our contingency as `` a source of both freedom and consequent moral responsibility . '' i , by_contrast , can_not help feeling that if some other curiosity from the burgess shale had survived instead , beings at once wiser and less boorish than homo sapiens might_have eventually gained earthly dominion . but even_if no conscious life had evolved here at all , the universe is a big place , and given the right conditions , sympathetic to creating some form of life . surely at some other cosmic address a gouldoid creature would_have risen out of the ooze to explain_why , paleontologically speaking , `` it is , indeed , a wonderful life . '' mr. holt is a columnist for the literary review in london .