one of the most remarkable features of the forced marches of the ethnic turks out of bulgaria over the past_five months has_been the lack_of international attention . the deportation of more_than 315,000 men , women and children by the bulgarian regime adds up to one of the largest migrations seen in the postwar years . yet some people are advancing a chilling casuistry : that what we are seeing is somehow the understandable result of the historical sins committed by the turks in the 16th century . today 's turks in bulgaria , in other_words , deserve what is coming to them four centuries later . as if this were n't enough , the senate_judiciary committee is getting_into the act . on tuesday it approved senator bob dole 's proposed commemorative resolution designating april 24 , 1990 , as the `` national day of remembrance of the 75th anniversary of the armenian genocide of 1915-1923 , '' suffered at the hands of the warring ottoman empire . there can_be no quibbling that the armenians endured terrible suffering , but one has to wonder what possible good such a resolution will achieve . it puts great strain on a longstanding u.s. friendship with turkey , a country that has_been one of america 's strongest allies in nato . the resolution also comes at a time when turkey has_been seeking help from the united_states in resolving its bulgarian emigration controversy and pursuing democratic reforms that may lead to membership in the european_community . turkey has_been fighting its past for years , and thus far has_been only partially successful . must it now accept that one of its strongest allies blames it for the genocide of another people ? such sentiment only encourages the adverse feelings toward turkey that surfaced when turkey asked for assistance in dealing_with its bulgarian emigration crisis . mr. dole 's odd effort notwithstanding , most of turkey 's political problems lie with the europeans . part_of the problem 0 some europeans have with turkey seems to stem_from its location -- turkey is n't really part_of europe . why , they wonder 0 , should it belong to the ec ? another anti-turkish hook is the islamic faith of the majority of the turkish people : turkey , we are told 0 , is not a christian nation ; its people simply wo_n't fit in with the western_european judeo-christian tradition . it 's when these rationalizations fall on deaf ears that the old standby of retribution for treatment at the hands of the ottoman empire comes to the fore . no_one has to accept the sins of the ottoman empire to reject that argument . turkey in any_event is long past it . the country has in recent_years accepted more_than 500,000 refugees from at_least four bordering nations . kurds , suffering what many_people consider to be a current extermination campaign at the hands of syria , iran and iraq have inundated eastern turkey . now it is their fellow turks arriving as refugees from bulgaria . the turkish refugee tragedy and the ongoing crisis can_not be ignored and shuttled off to that notorious dustbin of history that has_become so convenient recently . surely , the past suffering of any people at any time can_not be simply filed away and forgotten . but what the senate_judiciary committee has done in supporting the strongly worded armenian resolution achieves no useful end ; it merely produces more controversy and embittered memories . congress has enough difficulty dealing_with the realities of the world as it currently exists . bulgaria 's government has_been behaving beyond the pale for months , and the u.s. does its values no credit by ignoring that while casting its votes into the past .