the justice_department has distributed these new guidelines for u.s._attorneys prosecuting rico cases . a related editorial appears today . under -lcb- rico -rcb- , the government may_seek a temporary restraining order -lrb- tro -rrb- upon the filing of a rico indictment , in order to preserve all forfeitable assets until the trial is completed and judgment entered . such orders can have a wide-ranging impact_on third_parties who do business with the defendants , including clients , vendors , banks , investors , creditors , dependents , and others . some highly publicized cases involving rico tros have_been the subject of considerable criticism in the press , because of a perception that pre-trial freezing of assets is tantamount to a seizure of property without due_process . in order to ensure_that the rights of all interested parties are protected , the criminal division has instituted the following requirements to control the use of tros in rico prosecutions . -lrb- it should_be noted_that these requirements are in_addition to any other existing requirements , such_as review by the asset forfeiture office . -rrb- : 1 . as_part of the approval process for rico prosecutions , the prosecutor must submit any proposed forfeiture tro for review by the organized_crime and racketeering section . the prosecutor must show that less-intrusive remedies -lrb- such_as bonds -rrb- are not likely_to preserve the assets for forfeiture in the event of a conviction . 2 . in seeking approval of a tro , the prosecutor must articulate any anticipated impact that forfeiture and the tro would_have on innocent third_parties , balanced against the government 's need to preserve the assets . 3 . in deciding whether forfeiture -lrb- and , hence , a tro -rrb- is appropriate , the section will consider the nature and severity of the offense ; the government 's policy is not to seek the fullest forfeiture permissible under the law where that forfeiture would_be disproportionate to the defendant 's crime . 4 . when a rico tro is being sought , the prosecutor is required , at the earliest appropriate time , to state publicly that the government 's_request for a tro , and eventual forfeiture , is made in full recognition of the rights of third_parties -- that is , in requesting the tro , the government will not seek to disrupt the normal , legitimate business activities of the defendant ; will not seek through use of the relation-back doctrine to take from third_parties assets legitimately transferred to them ; will not seek to vitiate legitimate business transactions occurring between the defendant and third_parties ; and will , in all other respects , assist the court in ensuring that the rights of third_parties are protected , through proceeding under -lcb- rico -rcb- and otherwise . the division expects that the prosecutor will_announce these principles either at the time 0 the indictment is returned or , at the latest , at the first proceeding before the court concerning the tro .