greece 's second bout of general elections this_year is slated for nov. 5 . for those hoping to see a modicum of political normalcy restored -- in view of greece 's eight-year misadventure under autocratic pseudosocialism and subsequent three-month hitch with a conservative-communist coalition_government -- there_is but one bright sign : the scandals still encircling former prime_minister andreas papandreou and his fallen socialist government are like flies buzzing around a rotting carcass . in the mid-june round of voting , greeks gave no clear mandate to any single political party . the ad interim coalition_government that emerged_from post-electoral hagglings was , in essence , little more_than the ill-conceived offspring of ideological miscegenation : on one side , the center-right new democracy party , headed_by constantine mitsotakis . on the other , the so-called coalition of the left and progress -- a quaint and rather deceptive title for a merger of the pro-soviet communist_party of greece and its euro-communist cousin , the hellenic left . the unifying bond for this left-right mismatch was plain : pasok -lrb- mr._papandreou 's party -rrb- as common political enemy . the ostensible goal was a mop-up of government corruption , purportedly at all levels , but the main marks were mr._papandreou and his closest associates . in point of fact , this catharsis was overdue by decades . when reduced to buzzword status in ex parte pledges , however , the notion transmogrified into a promised assault , with targets primarily for political gains , not justice . with regard to greece 's long-bubbling bank-looting scandal , mr._papandreou 's principal accuser remains george koskotas , former owner of the bank of crete and self-confessed embezzler , now residing in a jail cell in salem , mass. , from where he is fighting extradition proceedings that would return him to greece . mr. koskotas 's credibility is , at best , problematic . he has ample motive to shift the blame , and his testimony has also been found less_than forthright on numerous points . nevertheless , the new democracy and communist parties herald his assertions as proof of pasok complicity . among unanswered questions are whether mr._papandreou received $ 23 million of stolen bank of crete funds and an_additional $ 734,000 in bribes , as contended ; whether the prime_minister ordered state agencies to deposit some $ 57 million in mr. koskotas 's bank and then skim off the interest ; and , what pasok 's cut was from the $ 210 million 0 mr. koskotas pinched . two former ministers were so heavily implicated in the koskotas affair that pasok members of parliament voted to refer them to the special court . but eluding parliamentary probe was the case of millions of drachmas 0 mr. koskotas funneled into new democracy coffers . in the end , the investigation produced only circumstantial evidence and `` indications '' that point to pasok , not clinching proof . on another issue , greeks were told how their national intelligence_agency , the eyp , regularly monitored the telephone conversations of prominent figures , including key opposition politicians , journalists and pasok cabinet members . despite convincing arguments , it was never established that mr._papandreou personally ordered or directed the wiretaps . the central weakness of the `` scandals '' debates was pointed up especially well when discussions focused_on arms deals and kickbacks . the coalition_government tried_to show that pasok ministers had_received hefty sums for oking the purchase of f-16 fighting falcon and mirage 2000 combat aircraft , produced_by the u.s.based general_dynamics corp. and france_'s avions marcel dassault , respectively . naturally , neither general_dynamics nor dassault could_be expected to hamper its prospective future dealings by making disclosures of sums paid -lrb- or not -rrb- to various greek officials for services rendered . so it seems that mr. mitsotakis and his communist chums may_have unwittingly served mr._papandreou a moral victory on a platter : pasok , whether guilty or not , can now traipse the countryside condemning the whole affair as a witch hunt at mr._papandreou 's expense . but while verbal high jinks alone wo_n't help pasok regain power , mr._papandreou should never be underestimated . first came his predictable fusillade : he charged 0 the coalition of the left and progress had sold out its leftist tenets by collaborating in a right-wing plot aimed_at ousting pasok and thwarting the course of socialism in greece . then , to buttress his credibility with the left , he enticed some smaller leftist parties to stand for election under the pasok banner . next , he continued to court the communists -- many of whom feel betrayed by the left-right coalition 's birth -- by bringing into pasok a well-respected communist_party candidate . for balance , and in hopes of gaining some disaffected centrist votes , he managed to attract a former new democracy party representative and known political enemy of mr. mitsotakis . thus pasok heads for the polls not_only with diminished scandal-stench , but also with `` seals of approval '' from representatives of its harshest accusers . crucial as these elections are for greece , pressing issues of state are getting lost in the shuffle . the country 's future nato participation remains unsure , for_instance . greece also must revamp major pieces of legislation in preparation for the 1992 targets of heightened common market cooperation . greece 's bilateral relations with the u.s. need attention soon_as well . for one , the current accord concerning u.s. military bases in greece lapses in may 1990 . negotiations for a new agreement were frozen before the june elections , but the clock is running . another matter of concern is the extradition of mohammed rashid , a palestinian terrorist who is wanted in the u.s. for the 1982 bombing of a pan_american airways flight . the greek courts have decided in favor of extradition in the rashid case , but the matter awaits final_approval from greece 's next justice minister . the greeks seem barely aware of the importance of the case as a litmus test of whether greece will_be counted in or out for international efforts to combat terrorism . that pasok could win the elections outright is improbable ; the greek press , previously eager to palm off pasok 's line , has_turned on mr._papandreou with a wild-eyed vengeance . yet the possibility of another lash-up government is all too real . if mr._papandreou becomes the major opposition leader , he could hamstring a conservative-led coalition . also , he could force new elections early_next year by frustrating the procedures for the election of the president of the republic in march . new democracy has once_again glaringly underestimated the opponent and linked its_own prospects to negative reaction against pasok , forgetting to tend_to either program clarity or the rectification of internal squabbles . as for mr._papandreou ? he 's not exactly sitting pretty at this stage . but since he is undoubtedly one of the most proficient bull slingers who ever raked muck , it seems far wiser to view him as sidelined , but certainly_not yet eliminated . mr._carpenter , a regional correspondent for national review , has lived in athens since_1981 .