row 21 of section 9 of the upper reserved at candlestick_park is a lofty perch , only a few steps from the very top of the stands . from my orange seat , i looked over the first-base line and the new-mown ball field in the warm sun of the last few_minutes before what was to have_been the third_game of the world_series . it was five in the afternoon , but that was pacific time . back in new_york the work day was already over , so i did_n't have to feel guilty . even still , i did feel self-indulgent , and i could_n't help remembering my father 's contempt for a rich medical colleague who would go to watch the tigers on summer afternoons . this ballpark , the stick , was not a classic baseball stadium -- too symmetrical , too_much bald concrete . and it did_n't have the crowded wild intimacy of yankee stadium . but i liked the easy friendliness of the people around me , liked it that they_'d brought their children , found it charming that , true citizens of the state of the future , they had brought so_many tvs and radios to stay in touch with electroreality at a live event . maybe it was their peculiar sense of history . the broadcasters were , after all , documenting the game , ratifying its occurrence for millions outside the stick . why_not watch or hear your experience historicized while you were living it ? the day was saturated with the weight of its_own impending history . long lines of people waited to buy special souvenir world_series postcards with official postmarks . thousands_of us had paid $_5 for the official souvenir book with its historical essays on series trivia , its historical photographs of great moments in series past , and its instructions , in english and spanish , for filling in the scorecard . pitcher = lanzador . homerun = jonron . players ran out on the field way below , and the stands began to reverberate . it must_be a local custom , i_thought 0 , stamping feet to welcome the team . but then the noise turned into a roar . and no_one was shouting . no_one around me was saying anything . because we all were busy riding a wave . sixty thousand surfers atop a concrete wall , waiting_for the wipeout . only at the moment of maximum roll did i grasp what was going on . then i remembered the quake of '71 , which i experienced in santa barbara in a second-story motel room . when the swaying of the building woke me up , i reasoned that a -rrb- i was in southern_california ; b -rrb- the bed was moving ; c -rrb- it must_be a magic fingers bed that had short-circuited . then i noticed 0 the overhead light was swaying on its cord and realized what had happened . what should i_do ? get_out of the possibly collapsing building to the parking_lot . but the lot might split into crevasses , so i had better stand on my car , which probably was wider than the average crevasse . fortunately , the quake was over before i managed to run out and stand naked on the hood . at the stick , while the world shook , i_thought of that morning and then it struck me that this time was different . if i survived , i would_have achieved every journalist 's highest wish . i was an eyewitness of the most newsworthy event on the planet at that moment . what was my angle ? how would i file ? all these thoughts raced through my head in the 15 seconds of the earthquake 's actual duration . the rest is , of course , history . the stick did_n't fall . the real tragedies occurred elsewhere , as we soon found out . but for a few_minutes there , relief abounded . a young mother found her boy , who had_been out buying a hotdog . the wall behind me was slightly deformed , but the center had held . and most of us waited for a while for the game to start . then we began to file out , to wait safely on terra firma for the opening pitch . it was during the quiet exodus down the pristine concrete ramps of the stick that i really understood the point of all those walkmen and watchmen . the crowd moved in clumps , clumps magnetized around an electronic nucleus . in this way , while the stick itself was blacked out , we kept up to date on events . within 15_minutes of the quake itself , i was able_to see pictures of the collapsed section of the bay_bridge . increasingly accurate estimates of the severity of the quake became available before i got to my car . and by then , expensive automobile sound systems were keeping the gridlocked parking_lot by the bay informed about the fire causing the big black plume of smoke 0 we saw on the northern horizon . darkness fell . but the broadcasts continued through the blacked-out night , with pictures of the sandwiched highway ganglion in oakland and firefighting in the marina_district . by then , our little sand village of cars had_been linked with a global village of listeners and viewers . everyone at the stick that day had started out as a spectator and ended up as a participant . in fact , the entire population of the bay_area had ended up with this dual role of actor and audience . the reporters were victims and some of the victims turned into unofficial reporters . the outstanding example of this was the motorist on the bay_bridge who had the presence of mind 0 to take out a video camera at the absolutely crucial moment and record the car in front as it fell into the gap in the roadway . the tape was on tv before the night was out . marshall mcluhan , you should have_been there at that hour .