on a recent saturday night , in the midst of west germany 's most popular prime-time show , a contestant bet the host that she could name any of 100 different cheeses after just one nibble , while blindfolded . the woman won the bet . but perhaps even more remarkable , the three-hour-show , `` wetten dass '' -lrb- make a bet -rrb- , regularly wins the top slot in the country 's tv ratings , sometimes drawing as many as 50 % of west german households . as the 1992 economic integration approaches , europe 's cultural curators have taken to the ramparts against american `` cultural imperialism , '' threatening to impose quotas against such pop invaders as `` dallas , '' `` miami vice '' and `` l.a. law . '' but much of what the europeans want to protect seems every bit as cheesy as what they are trying to keep out . the most militant opposition to american tv imports has come from french television and movie producers , who have demanded quotas ensuring that a full 60 % of europe 's tv shows be produced in europe . so far , the french have failed to win enough broad-based support to prevail . a glance through the television listings and a few twists of the european television dial suggest one reason why . while there are some popular action and drama series , few boast the high culture and classy production values 0 one might expect . more european air time is filled with low-budget game shows , variety hours , movies and talk shows , many of which are authorized knock-offs of their american counterparts . one of france 's most popular saturday night programs features semi-celebrities seeking out their grammar-school classmates for on-air reunions . a flemish game show has as its host a belgian pretending to be italian . one of italy 's favorite shows , `` fantastico , '' a tepid variety show , is so popular that viewers clamored to buy a chocolate product , `` cacao fantastico , '' whose praises were sung each week by dancing showgirls -- even though the product did n't exist . topping the cheese stunt , on another typical evening of fun on `` wetten dass , '' a contestant won a bet with the show 's host , thomas gottschalk , that he could identify 300 german dialects over the telephone . a celebrity guest , u.s. ambassador to west germany richard burt , also won a bet that someone could pile up $ 150 worth of quarters on a slanted coin . mr. burt nonetheless paid the penalty as if he had lost , agreeing to spend a day with west german foreign minister hans-dietrich genscher frying and selling their combined weight in potato pancakes . if this seems like pretty weak stuff around which to raise the protectionist barriers , it may be because these shows need all the protection 0 they can get . european programs usually target only their own local audience , and often only a small portion of that . mega-hits in germany or italy rarely make it even to france or great britain , and almost never show up on u.s. screens . attempts to produce `` pan-european '' programs have generally resulted in disappointment . one annual co-production , the three-hour-long `` eurovision song contest , '' featuring soft-rock songs from each of 20 european countries , has been described as the world 's most boring tv show . another , `` jeux sans frontieres , '' where villagers from assorted european countries make fools of themselves performing pointless tasks , is a hit in france . a u.s.-made imitation under the title `` almost anything goes '' flopped fast . for the most part , what 's made here stays here , and for good reason . the cream of the british crop , the literary dramas that are shown on u.s. public television as `` masterpiece theater , '' make up a relatively small part of british air time . most british programming is more of an acquired taste . there is , for instance , `` one man and his dog , '' a herding contest among sheep dogs . also riveting to the british are hours of dart-throwing championships , even more hours of lawn bowling contests and still more hours of snooker marathons . european drama has had better , though still mixed , fortunes . the most popular such shows focus on narrow national concerns . a french knock-off of `` dallas , '' called `` chateauvallon '' and set in a french vineyard , had a good run in france , which ended after the female lead was injured in a real-life auto accident . `` schwarzwaldklinik , '' -lrb- black forest clinic -rrb- , a kind of german `` st . elsewhere '' set in a health spa , is popular in germany , and has spread into france . italy 's most popular series is a drama called `` la piovra , '' or `` the octopus , '' which chronicles the fight of an idealistic young investigator in palermo against the mafia . it was front-page news in italy earlier this year when the fictional inspector was gunned down in the series . spain 's most popular mini-series this year was `` juncal , '' the story of an aging bullfighter . `` the trend is pretty well established now that local programs are the most popular , with american programs second , '' says brian wenham , a former director of programs for the british broadcasting corp . `` given a choice , everybody will watch a home-produced show . '' but frequently there is n't much choice . thus , europe has begun the recent crusade 0 to produce more worthy shows of its own , programs with broader appeal . `` we 've basically got to start from scratch , to train writers and producers to make shows that other people will want to see , '' concedes colin young , head of britain 's national film theatre school . while some in the u.s. contend that advertising is the bane of television , here many believe that its absence is to blame for the european tv industry 's sluggish development . until recently , national governments in europe controlled most of the air time and allowed little or no advertising . since production costs were guaranteed , it did n't matter that a program could n't be sold abroad or put into syndication , as most american programs are . but not much money was spent on the shows , either , a situation that encouraged cheap-to-make talk and game shows , while discouraging expensive-to-produce dramas . now , however , commercial channels are coming to most european countries , and at the same time , satellite and cable technology is spreading rapidly . just last week , greece authorized two commercial channels for the first time ; spain earlier began to allow commercial television alongside its state channels . the result is a new and huge appetite for programming . but perhaps to the consternation of those calling for quotas , most of this void is likely to be filled with the cheapest and most plentiful programming now available -- reruns -- usually of shows made in the u.s. . sky channel , a british-based venture of australian-american press tycoon rupert murdoch , offers what must be a baffling cultural mix to most of its audience . the financially struggling station offers programs obviously made available cheaply from its boss 's other ventures . in a madrid hotel room recently , a viewer caught the end of a badly acted series about a fishing boat on australia 's great barrier reef , only to be urged by the british announcer to `` stay tuned for the further adventures of skippy the kangaroo . '' lisa grishaw-mueller in bonn , laura colby in milan , tim carrington in london and carlta vitzhum in madrid contributed to this article .