in a sign 0 the stock slump has n't quieted europe 's takeover fever , cie . financiere de paribas said 0 it intends to bid for one of france 's other large financial and industrial holding companies , cie. de navigation mixte . paribas said that once it receives the go-ahead from french stock market authorities , it will offer to boost its navigation mixte stake to 66.7 % from the current 18.7 % . its cash-or-shares bid values navigation mixte at about 22.82 billion francs -lrb- $ 3.62 billion -rrb- , making this one of france 's largest-ever attempted takeovers . the cost of buying the additional 48 % stake would be 10.95 billion francs -lrb- $ 1.74 billion -rrb- . the move would greatly boost paribas 's stake in the insurance , transport and food businesses , where navigation mixte is strong . it also would make paribas a major french ally of west germany 's allianz ag insurance group . allianz holds a 50 % stake in navigation mixte 's insurance interests , acquired three weeks ago . those include rhin et moselle vie and via assurances . long considered a potential takeover target , navigation mixte had hoped 0 allianz would help protect it from raiders . that idea may have backfired . paribas is allianz 's main french bank , and the munich-based group said 0 it intends to stay neutral . navigation mixte said 0 it would n't have any comment until its board meets wednesday . but navigation mixte is loosely held and hard 0 to defend . `` the defensive options are limited , '' says philippe braye , a partner in portfolio management concern france finance quatre . `` who would bid against paribas ? '' if the paribas bid succeeds , it will be the second time in two months 0 a big french investment banking group has snapped up an insurance group . last month , paribas 's archrival , cie . financiere de suez , won a battle for groupe victoire , france 's second-largest private-sector insurer , which itself had just acquired west germany 's colonia versicherung ag . that complex bid was billed as france 's largest takeover ever -lrb- this one is slightly smaller -rrb- . moreover , suez had just finished winning an even larger battle last year for control of societe generale de belgique . paribas officials , once considered france 's toughest bankers , felt abashed at suez 's success and its rapid growth . although paribas denies it , analysts say 0 the new bid in part simply reflects the continuing rivalry between france 's two largest investment banking groups . it also reflects the broader pressure on companies in europe to keep up as the european community prepares to reduce internal trade barriers by 1992 . although paribas chairman michel francois-poncet would n't rule out eventually selling all of navigation mixte 's insurance operations to allianz , he stressed the potential for the two groups instead to cooperate . he also told reporters 0 the acquisition would give paribas fresh diversity , bringing it properties in food and transport where it has been weak . navigation mixte has investments in a sugar company , a food and canning concern , a bakery and bus and trucking firms , among others . and navigation mixte has a huge hidden attraction . payment by allianz for the insurance interests 0 it has just bought will help swell the french concern 's treasury to an estimated 11 billion francs . paribas said 0 it will bid 1,850 francs a share for navigation mixte shares that qualify for a full yearly dividend , and 1,800 francs for those created july 1 , which are eligible for partial dividends . alternatively , it said 0 it would offer three paribas shares , themselves eligible for dividends as of next jan. 1 , for one navigation mixte share . paribas shares closed down 30 francs at 610 francs , and navigation mixte shares were suspended at 1,800 francs pending the outcome of the bid . paribas said 0 it would publish details of its bid once authorities clear it . this is one of the first bids under new takeover rules aimed at encouraging open bids instead of gradual accumulation of large stakes . some financial sources said privately that paribas blundered in failing to move sooner for the insurance and industrial group , bidding only after speculation had pushed up the price . mr. francois-poncet responded that his group initially intended to take only a minority stake , striking an alliance with current management . when notoriously independent-minded navigation mixte chairman marc fournier rejected paribas 's offer and began buying paribas shares in retaliation , mr. francois-poncet said 0 , he felt obliged to bid for control . he told reporters 0 he had information that mr. fournier was preparing to buy as much as 20 % of paribas , up from less than 5 % currently . a bid against paribas could n't be ruled out . france 's second-largest government-owned insurance company , assurances generales de france , has been building its own navigation mixte stake , currently thought to be between 8 % and 10 % . analysts said 0 they do n't think 0 it is contemplating a takeover , however , and its officials could n't be reached .