an arbitrator awarded eastern airlines pilots between $ 60 million and $ 100 million in back pay , a decision that could complicate the carrier 's bankruptcy-law reorganization . eastern , a unit of texas air corp. , said 0 it is examining the ruling to determine if it can appeal . it 's unclear whether eastern will succeed in overturning the arbitrator 's decision , made in a long-simmering `` pay parity '' dispute that predates both the carrier 's chapter 11 petition and its 1986 acquisition by texas air . all eastern 's previous court efforts to head off the pilots ' demands have failed . an eastern spokesman said 0 he does n't expect that the arbitrator 's ruling `` will have any overall material effect on the company 's strategic plan . '' bankruptcy experts said 0 the law is n't clear on how such an arbitration ruling can affect a company 's case . like any other creditor , the pilots will have to apply to the court for payment of their claim . that may leave a lot of leeway 0 for u.s. bankruptcy judge burton r. lifland to decide what , if anything , the pilots actually collect . in august , he issued the ruling that let the pilots pursue their back-pay grievance before the arbitrator . the pilots ' contract with eastern calls for a mutually acceptable private arbitrator to resolve such grievances . in a statement to employees , eastern said 0 the company was disappointed by the ruling . `` the obligation is totally unwarranted , '' the statement said . james linsey , a lawyer for the air line pilots association , said 0 the pilots were extremely pleased . `` this is a blow not only to eastern but to the creditors committee , '' he said . eastern 's creditors committee , along with the company , has consistently opposed the pilots ' claim , which if paid would have to come out of money 0 both hope to use to pay off other bankruptcy claims . eastern and its creditors are in the final , delicate stages of negotiating a second reorganization plan to pay off the airline 's debts . an earlier plan , which had received the creditors ' approval in july , fell apart when eastern changed its business plan . it is n't known whether the pilot claim was figured into either plan . the dispute between eastern and its pilots is over a `` pay parity '' clause in the pilots ' contract . the clause was part of an agreement in which pilots accepted a substantial pay cut as long as no other labor group got a raise . shortly after texas air took control of eastern , some machinists union supervisors received a 20 % pay raise . the pilots argued that this triggered a pay raise for them . eastern has disputed the claim , but a federal district court , an appeals court and now the arbitrator have all sided with the pilots . the two sides do n't even agree about how much money is at issue . the pilots put the amount as high as $ 100 million , the company at $ 65 million . another arbitrator is hearing another pay parity case between eastern and its pilots , resulting from a similar set of circumstances involving a separate pay raise granted another union . a decision on that case is n't expected before mid-november . ironically , many of the pilots involved have left eastern or are still striking the carrier , which filed for bankruptcy protection march 9 . about 800 have crossed the picket lines and returned to work .