first they get us to buy computers so we can get more information . then the computers give us more information than we can ever read . now they plan to sell us products that sift through all the information to give us what we really want to know . the products range from computer-edited , personal newsletters to systems that sit inside a personal computer and pick stories on selected topics off news wires . `` filtered news is what people want , '' says esther dyson , editor of release 1.0 , an industry newsletter that spots new developments . `` most people read 10 times more than necessary in order to find out what they really need . '' geoffrey goodfellow , who dropped out of high school back in the 1970s to manage a computer network at a california research firm , says : `` old network hands have started to turn off the network because they do n't have time 0 to wade through the muck . '' mr. goodfellow has started a menlo park , calif. , company called anterior technology that provides human editors for public electronic networks . `` i see it as a sewage treatment plant , '' he says . a new product , newsedge , carries five business news wires simultaneously into a user 's computer and beeps and flashes whenever an article appears that is of interest to the user . the product , developed by desktop data corp. , a new company based in waltham , mass. , scans the wires looking for articles that contain key words specified by the user . one early user , david semmel , a chicago venture capitalist and investor in desktop data , says 0 he uses it to track takeover developments . he says 0 he told newsedge to look for stories containing such words as takeover , acquisition , acquire , lbo , tender , merger , junk and halted . `` i 'm pretty confident 0 i 'm catching everything , '' he says . newsedge is pricey : $ 7,500 a year for a limited version , $ 40,000 a year if the cost of all the news wires is included . and it works best in high-powered personal computers . but some investors and consultants who have tried it are enthusiastic . jeffrey tarter , editor of softletter , a watertown , mass. , industry newsletter , says : `` i 've seen a lot of people fooling around on the fringes of filtering information . this is the first time 0 i 've seen something 0 i could imagine a lot of people using . '' newsedge uses an fm radio band to carry news wires provided by reuters , mcgraw-hill and dow jones & co. , as well as pr newswire , which carries corporate press releases . an fm receiver attached to a user 's personal computer receives the information . some organizations have devised their own systems 0 to sort through news wire items as they come in . george goodwin , an account manager at royal bank of canada , adapted a lotus development corp. program called agenda to sort through international news wires . it automatically selects stories from particular countries for reading by the international bankers responsible for lending in those areas . for those who do n't need their personalized information moment by moment , some services are offering overnight newsletters . individual inc. , a new company in brookline , mass. , uses filtering technology developed by cornell university computer scientist gerard salton , to automatically produce customized newsletters 0 it sends electronically to subscribers by 8 a.m. the next day . `` we are operating an information refinery that takes a broad stream of raw data and turns it into actionable knowledge , '' says yosi amram , founder and president . the daily newsletter , which is n't widely available yet , will have a base cost of $ 2,000 a year and provides full text of relevant articles under license agreements with reuters , mcgraw hill , united press international , two press release news wires and japan 's kyodo news service . one early user is nec corp. 's u.s. printer marketing arm . `` they want the full press releases on printer announcements by their competition , '' mr. amram says . it also tracks personnel and financial announcements by nec 's distributors and customers . individual inc. 's technology goes beyond word searches by using a computerized thesaurus . if a customer asks for stories about `` ibm , '' the computer will also supply stories that mention `` i.b.m. , international business machines , or big blue , '' mr. amram says 0 . moreover , individual inc. 's computers can weigh the value of an article based on how closely the story matches the subscriber 's interest area . it compares the position of key words in the story ; words in the headline or first paragraph get a higher value . and it calculates how often the words appear in the story compared with how often they appear in the entire data base . the higher the ratio of hits to total words , the higher the presumed value to the reader . pinpoint information corp. , chantilly , va. , a producer of $ 1,800-a-year personalized newsletters about the computer industry that started full operation last month , relies on 12 human readers to code news releases by topic in order to select items for each subscriber . `` the computers find all the key words 0 they can , but the editors confirm every one . computer picking is n't perfect , '' says harvey golomb , president and founder of pinpoint . the humans also write abstracts of articles from some 200 computer industry publications . once all the articles are coded and put in a data base , pinpoint 's computers pick the most relevant for each subscriber and lay them out in a three-to-five-page newsletter format ; each newsletter is sent directly from the computer to the subscriber 's fax machine . mr. golomb says 0 each of his computers can produce and send about 75 unique newsletters a night . many computer network users who never see news wires would like to sort through their electronic mail automatically . so-called e-mail is the collection of inter-office memos , gossip , technical data , schedules and directives distributed over local and national computer networks . `` all these interconnected computers make it difficult to sort out what 's junk and what 's important , '' says chuck digate , a former lotus development executive who has started a new company 0 to cope with the problem . mr. digate says 0 his firm , beyond inc. , has licensed technology known as information lens from massachusetts institute of technology and plans to develop it for commercial use . the mit project devised ways 0 for e-mail to be automatically categorized as top priority if it comes from certain designated senders or requires action in the next couple of days . mr. digate says that beyond will refine the product `` so the message will be smart enough 0 to know to come back and bother you again next week . '' and if a user is busy , `` he can set it for crisis mode : ` do n't bother me with reports until monday . ' '' a program called notes , which is under development by lotus , also is designed to sort e-mail sent within work groups . one thing that makes e-mail difficult 0 to sift through is that each item looks the same . notes , which is designed for advanced computers that display graphics , allows mail senders to put different logos on their mail . a daily news briefing from the company librarian , for example , would have a distinctive format on the screen , just as a paper version would have . `` with e-mail , you do n't have the visual clues of paper , '' says mr. tarter , the editor of softletter . `` with notes , they 're visually distinct .