wary investors have been running for the stock market 's equivalent of bomb shelters , buying shares of gold-mining and utility companies . those two groups have recently been leading the list of stocks setting new highs . on friday , when only a dozen common stocks hit 52-week highs on the new york stock exchange , five were gold-mining issues , and another four were utilities . on monday , when a mere seven common stocks managed new highs , six were utilities or golds . at first glance , gold and utilities seem strange bedfellows . after all , gold prices usually soar when inflation is high . utility stocks , on the other hand , thrive on disinflation , because the fat dividends 0 utilities pay look more attractive when prices are falling -lrb- or rising slowly -rrb- . but the two groups have something very important in common : they are both havens for scared money , stocks for people who hate stocks . it 's as if investors , the past few days , are betting that something is going to go wrong -- even if they do n't know what . if the stock market and the economy catch their breath and show that they 're on firmer footing , these stocks might well fall back . indeed , that happened to some extent yesterday , as industrial stocks rebounded , partly on news of takeovers in the paper industry . still , a lot of investors clearly have revived their interest in gold and utility shares . `` the primary overriding thing is that people are frightened , '' says martin sass , a new york money manager . `` the aftershocks of oct. 13 -lrb- when the dow jones industrial average dropped 190 points -rrb- are still reverberating . '' certainly , the oct. 13 sell-off did n't settle any stomachs . beyond that , money managers and analysts see other problems . inventories are creeping up ; car inventories are already high , and big auto makers are idling plants . takeover fever has cooled , removing a major horse from the market 's cart . britain 's unsettled political scene also worries some investors . `` the gyrations in the british government '' add political uncertainty on top of high inflation and a ragged stock market , says 0 john hoffman , assistant director of research at smith barney , harris upham & co . `` one of the three major markets in the world is getting chewed up pretty bad . '' `` if the fed does not come to the rescue and produce lower short-term interest rates over the next 30 days , the market 's going to flounder , '' says larry wachtel , a market analyst with prudential-bache securities . with this sort of sentiment common , it 's natural for investors to seek out `` defensive '' investments . utilities are a classic example : even in recessions , people continue to use electric power , water and gas at a fairly steady rate . such defensive issues as food , tobacco , and drug stocks have been in favor for some time . but many of these stocks have now become expensive . mr. wachtel points to coca-cola co. and pepsico inc. as examples : they 're selling for 18 to 22 times estimated 1990 per-share earnings . gold stocks are n't cheap on this basis , either , with many selling for 20 times earnings or more . even utility stocks are n't all that inexpensive , at an average of 14 times earnings . but the two groups represent a further step in defensiveness . if gold stocks and utilities continue to lead , it may signal that the market is in for rough times . that 's just what joseph granville expects . `` we are going to explode lower , '' says the flamboyant market seer , who had a huge following a few years back . `` anyone telling you to buy stocks in this market is technically irresponsible . you do n't want to own anything long except gold stocks . '' one reason for his gloom is a weekly tally 0 he keeps of stocks within a point of hitting new highs or lows . last friday , 96 stocks on the big board hit new 12-month lows . but by mr. granville 's count , 493 issues were within one point of such lows . robert stovall , a veteran new york money manager and president of stovall\/twenty-first securities , has money in both gold and utility issues . `` i think 0 we could very well have -lcb- an economic -rcb- slowdown , beginning very soon if not already , '' he says . mr. stovall does n't expect an actual recession . but he does expect `` a muffler dragger '' of an economy , with `` very slow growth , maybe one quarter of no growth at all . '' in such a climate , utility stocks look good to him . he favors fpl group inc. , florida progress corp. , teco energy inc. , wisconsin energy corp. , and dominion resources inc . the appeal of gold issues , mr. stovall says 0 , is that `` they 're a counter group . you go into them because they move counter to the general market . '' he adds that gold stocks had been down so long 0 they were `` ready for a bounce . '' his favorites are american barrick resources corp. , echo bay mines ltd. and coeur d'alene mines corp . nevertheless , mr. stovall emphasizes that `` you do n't buy -lcb- gold stocks -rcb- based on powerful fundamentals . '' in addition to having high price-earnings ratios , most pay puny dividends , if any . `` the earning power -lcb- of gold mining companies -rcb- is restricted unless the gold price hops up over $ 425 an ounce , '' he says . abby cohen , an investment strategist for drexel burnham lambert , also thinks 0 it makes sense to have some money in both utilities and gold . `` my outlook is for a decline of about 10 % in corporate profits '' in 1990 , she says . but `` a bunch of utilities '' should post profit increases . among utilities , drexel currently favors entergy corp. and general public utilities corp . as for gold , she notes that it usually rises when the dollar is weak , as it has been lately . among gold stocks , drexel likes battle mountain gold co. , newmont gold co. and freeport-mcmoran gold co .