b.a.t industries plc may delay aspects of its defensive restructuring plan -- including the sale of its saks fifth avenue and marshall field units -- in the wake of the current upheaval in financial markets , company officials said 0 . the british conglomerate , planning its own defensive restructuring to fight off a # 13.35 billion -lrb- $ 21.03 billion -rrb- takeover bid by anglo-french financier sir james goldsmith , intends to press ahead with an extraordinary shareholder vote today to clear the way for its value-boosting measures . if anything , the gyrations in world stock markets -- and in b.a.t 's share price -- since last friday 's sharp wall street sell-off have increased the likelihood of shareholder approval for the restructuring , analysts and several big institutional holders said 0 . `` thank god 0 we have some deal on the table , '' said stewart gilchrist , a director at scottish amicable investment managers , which intends to vote its roughly 1 % stake in favor of the restructuring . investors in b.a.t have been on a roller coaster . b.a.t has been london 's best-performing blue chip over the past six months , up 40 % against a 4 % rise in the financial times 100-share index . but this week , b.a.t has been hit harder than other big u.k. stocks -- first by the market gyrations , then by tuesday 's san francisco earthquake , which could leave b.a.t 's farmers group inc. insurance unit facing big claims . b.a.t rose five pence -lrb- eight cents -rrb- to 756 pence -lrb- $ 11.91 -rrb- in london yesterday as a late market rally erased a 28-pence fall earlier in the day . to fight off predators , b.a.t plans to spin off about $ 6 billion in assets , largely by selling such u.s. retailing units as marshall field and saks and by floating its big paper and u.k. retailing business via share issues to existing holders . proceeds will help pay for a planned buy-back of 10 % of its shares and a 50 % dividend increase . `` i think 0 the restructuring will get the required support , '' said michael pacitti , an analyst at london stockbroker ubs phillips & drew . `` the shareholders effectively will support the share price by clearing the share buy-back . '' but b.a.t 's restructuring , which was never going to happen quickly , now will take longer because of the market upheaval . company officials , holders and analysts who previously expected the disposals to be substantially complete by the end of next year 's first half now say 0 the market gyrations could delay the actions well into the second half . `` we are n't forced sellers . we do n't have an absolute deadline and if market conditions are truly awful we might decide 0 it is not the right time , '' 0 to take particular steps , said 0 michael prideaux , a b.a.t spokesman . even if b.a.t receives approval for the restructuring , the company will remain in play , say 0 shareholders and analysts , though the situation may unfold over the next 12 months , rather than six . the new b.a.t will be a smaller tobacco and financial-services hybrid whose price-earnings ratio may more closely reflect the lower-growth tobacco business than the higher-multiple financial-services business , these holders believe 0 . thus b.a.t 's restructuring may only make the company a more manageable target for other corporate predators -- possibly such acquisitive bidders as hanson plc . `` the last few days will surely slow down the pace of events , '' says scottish amicable 's mr. gilchrist . `` but i would n't write off '' sir james or other potential bidders . among possible delays , the sales of saks and marshall field -- which were expected to be on the block soon after the crucial christmas season -- may slide into the second quarter or second half . analysts estimate that sales of the two businesses could raise roughly $ 2 billion . b.a.t is n't predicting a postponement because the units `` are quality businesses and we are encouraged by the breadth of inquiries , '' said 0 mr. prideaux . but the delay could happen if b.a.t does n't get adequate bids , he said 0 . people familiar with b.a.t say 0 possible acquirers for the units include managers from both retailing chains , and general cinema corp. , which is interested in bidding for saks . other potential bidders for parts of b.a.t 's u.s. retail unit include dillard department stores inc. , may department stores co. and limited inc . b.a.t has declined to identify the potential bidders . though sir james has said 0 he intends to mount a new bid for b.a.t once approval from u.s. insurance regulators is received , jitters over prospects for junk-bond financing and u.s. leverage buy-outs are making investors more skeptical about sir james 's prospects . his initial offer indicated 0 he needed to raise as much as 80 % of the takeover financing through the debt markets . market uncertainty also clouds the outlook for b.a.t 's attracting a premium price for its u.s. retailing properties . finally , tuesday 's california earthquake initially knocked 3.7 % off b.a.t 's share price in london yesterday because of fears of the potential claims to los angeles-based farmers , which has a substantial portion of its property and casualty exposure in california . on farmers , mr. prideaux said 0 it is too early to quantify the level of potential claims . he added 0 b.a.t `` has no expectation of a material impact on farmers .