under attack by its own listed companies and powerful floor traders , the new york stock exchange is considering reinstituting a `` collar '' on program trading that it abandoned last year , according to people familiar with the big board . the exchange also may step up its disclosure of firms engaged in program trading , these people said 0 . big board officials would n't comment publicly . but in an interview in which he called the stock market 's volatility a `` national problem , '' big board chairman john j. phelan jr. said , `` we are going to try to do some things 0 in the short intermediate term '' to help the situation . mr. phelan has been viewed by many exchange members as being indifferent to stock-price swings caused by program trades . he said 0 he is `` very surprised '' by the furor over program trading and the exchange 's role in it that has raged in recent days . mr. phelan said that the big board has been trying to deal quietly with the issue , but that banning computer-assisted trading strategies entirely , as some investors want , would be like `` taking everybody out of an automobile and making them ride a horse . '' the exchange has a board meeting scheduled for tomorrow , and it is expected that some public announcement could be made after that . big board officials have been under seige from both investors and the exchange 's own floor traders since the dow jones industrial average 's 190-point tumble on oct. 13 . mr. phelan has n't been making public remarks in recent days , and many people have urged him to take more of a leadership role on the program trading issue . what the big board is considering is re-establishing a `` collar '' on program trading when the market moves significantly . early last year , after a 140-point , one-day drop in the dow , the big board instituted the collar , which banned program trading through the big board 's computers whenever the dow moved 50 points up or down in a day . it did n't work . `` the collar was penetrated on a number of occasions , '' meaning 0 securities firms figured out ways 0 to conduct program trades to circumvent the collar and use the big board 's electronic trading system , mr. phelan said 0 . that was when the exchange took a new tack by publishing monthly statistics listing the top 15 program trading firms . exchange officials emphasized that the big board is considering a variety of actions 0 to deal with program trading . people familiar with the exchange said 0 another idea likely to be approved is expanding the monthly reports on program trading to cover specific days or even hours of heavy program trading and who was doing it . meanwhile , another big wall street brokerage firm joined others that have been pulling back from program trading . american express co. 's shearson lehman hutton inc. unit said 0 it ceased all index-arbitrage program trading for client accounts . in stock-index arbitrage , traders buy and sell large amounts of stock with offsetting trades in stock-index futures to profit from fleeting price discrepancies between the two markets . shearson , which in september was the 11th-biggest program trader on the big board , had already suspended stock-index arbitrage for its own account . also , cs first boston inc. 's first boston corp. unit , the fifth-biggest program trader in september , is `` preparing a response '' to the program-trading outcry , officials of the firm said 0 . first boston is one of the few major wall street firms that have n't pulled back from program trading in recent days . mr. phelan is an adroit diplomat who normally appears to be solidly in control of the big board 's factions . but he has been getting heat from all sides over program trading . mr. phelan 's recent remarks that investors simply must get used to the stock-market volatility from program trading have drawn criticism from both the exchange 's stock specialists , who make markets in individual stocks , and from many companies that have shares listed on the big board . mr. phelan said that his predicting continued volatility is just `` how the world is . if bringing the message is a crime , i 'm guilty of it . '' but he said 0 this does n't mean 0 he is satisfied with the market 's big swings . `` we 're trying to take care of a heck of a lot of constituents , '' mr. phelan said . `` each one has a different agenda . '' for example , in a special meeting monday with mr. phelan , senior officials of some of the big board 's 49 stock specialist firms complained that the exchange is no longer representing their interests . `` we are looking for representation 0 we have n't had , '' a specialist said . `` we 've had dictation . '' after another session 0 mr. phelan held yesterday with major brokerage firms such as morgan stanley & co. , goldman , sachs & co. , painewebber group inc. and first boston -- all of which have engaged in program trading -- an executive of a top brokerage firm said , `` clearly , the firms want the exchange to take leadership . '' many specialist firms resent the big board 's new `` basket '' product that allows institutions to buy or sell all stocks in the standard & poor 's 500-stock index in one shot . ultimately , the specialists view this as yet another step toward electronic trading that could eventually destroy their franchise . `` his -lcb- phelan 's -rcb- own interests are in building an electronic marketplace , '' said a market maker . the basket product , while it has got off to a slow start , is being supported by some big brokerage firms -- another member of mr. phelan 's splintered constituency . mr. phelan has had difficulty convincing the public that the big board is serious about curbing volatility , especially as the exchange clearly relishes its role as the home for $ 200 billion in stock-index funds , which buy huge baskets of stocks to mimic popular stock-market indexes like the standard & poor 's 500 , and which sometimes employ program trading . the big board wants to keep such index funds from fleeing to overseas markets , but only as long as it `` handles it intelligently , '' mr. phelan said . despite what some investors are suggesting , the big board is n't even considering a total ban on program trading or stock futures , exchange officials said 0 . most revisions 0 it will propose will be geared toward slowing down program trading during stressful periods , said 0 officials working with the exchange . computers have made trading more rapid , but that can be fixed with some fine-tuning . `` i think 0 if you -lcb- can -rcb- speed things up , you can slow them down , '' mr. phelan said . `` that 's different than wrecking them . '' while volatility wo n't go away , he said 0 , `` volatility is greater than program trading . what i 'm trying to say to people is , 0 it 's proper to worry about program trading , but it 's only a piece of the business . '' for example , mr. phelan said that big institutions have so much control over public investments that they can cause big swings in the market , regardless of index arbitrage . `` a lot of people would like to go back to 1970 , '' before program trading , he said 0 . `` i would like to go back to 1970 . but we 're not going back to 1970 . '' indeed , mr. phelan said that if stock-market volatility persists , the u.s. may lose its edge as being the best place 0 to raise capital . `` japan 's markets are more stable , '' he said . `` if that continues , a significant number of -lcb- u.s. . -rcb- companies will go over there to raise money . '' in coming days , when the big board formulates its responses to the program-trading problem , mr. phelan may take a more public role in the issue . lewis l. glucksman , vice chairman of smith barney , harris upham & co. , said : `` this is a problem that 's taking on a life of its own . the program trading situation seems to have driven individual investors as well as others out of the market , and even europeans are suspicious . the exchange should take a pro-active position . '' for now , however , mr. phelan said : `` i refuse to get out there and tell everybody 0 everything is hunky-dory . we have a major problem , and that problem is volatility . '' craig torres contributed to this article .