norfolk southern corp. directors authorized the railroad company to buy back as many as 45 million of its shares , which would have a current value of more than $ 1.7 billion . the buy-back , coupled with a nearly completed earlier purchase of 20 million shares , would reduce shares outstanding by more than 26 % . the norfolk , va. , company has 172.2 million shares outstanding . in a statement , arnold b. mckinnon , chairman and chief executive officer , noted that the new repurchase program `` should serve to enhance shareholder value . '' a spokeswoman said 0 the company will finance the buy-back with cash on hand , borrowing and `` cash 0 norfolk expects to generate . '' analysts said 0 they expected the action , and investors applauded the move . in composite trading on the new york stock exchange , norfolk southern shares closed at $ 37.875 , up $ 1.125 . still , analysts do n't expect the buy-back to significantly affect per-share earnings in the short term . `` the impact wo n't be that great , '' said graeme lidgerwood of first boston corp . that is in part because of the effect of having to average the number of shares outstanding , she said 0 . in addition , mrs. lidgerwood said 0 , norfolk is likely to draw down its cash initially to finance the purchases and thus forfeit some interest income . longer term , however , the buy-back is expected to increase earnings , especially after 1990 , mrs. lidgerwood said 0 . moreover , the extensive program in effect establishes a floor for the stock price , said 0 joel price , analyst for donaldson , lufkin & jenrette . the buy-back `` is really a comfort to those who want to buy the stock that there is a -lcb- price -rcb- floor , '' he said 0 . `` at a certain price , if the management thinks 0 -lcb- the stock -rcb- is cheap , they can go in and buy it . '' under the program , norfolk plans to acquire shares in the open market . under the earlier plan , norfolk was authorized in 1987 to buy up to 20 million shares . it has purchased about 19 million of them .