the frenetic stock and bond markets cooled off , but the dollar slumped . stocks rose slightly as trading activity slowed from the frenzied pace earlier this week . prices of long-term treasury bonds hovered in a narrow band most of the day , finishing little changed despite the dollar 's weakness and fears about a wave of government borrowing coming soon . helped by futures-related program buying , the dow jones industrial average gained 4.92 points to close at 2643.65 . but the dow jones transportation average fell for the seventh-consecutive session as more investors dumped ual shares . bond prices rallied early yesterday morning as traders scrambled to buy treasury issues on fears that the northern california earthquake might lead to a stock-market debacle . but when stocks held steady , treasury bonds later retreated . speculation that the federal reserve will lower interest rates in coming weeks helped push the dollar down while boosting stocks , traders said 0 . but many investors remain wary about stocks , partly because they expect continued turbulence in the junk-bond market that would make it more difficult to finance corporate takeovers . `` i 'm surprised 0 we did n't see more volatility '' in stocks , said 0 raymond f. devoe jr. , market strategist at legg mason wood walker . `` i think 0 the problems in the junk-bond area are just beginning , and this will be very unsettling for companies that have issued junk bonds . in a bull market , credit does not matter , '' mr. devoe added . `` but when it does matter , then it 's the only thing that matters . '' however , many institutional investors are reacting to the stock market 's plunge as `` a great buying opportunity , '' said 0 charles i. clough , chief investment strategist at merrill lynch capital markets . `` things are beginning to settle down . the markets are returning to normalcy . '' oil prices initially rose on fears that the massive earthquake in northern california would disrupt production . but prices later reversed course , finishing slightly lower , as investors concluded that any cuts would n't be large and that foreign oil producers would quickly pick up the slack . in major market activity : stock prices rose . new york stock exchange volume shrank to 166.9 million shares from 224.1 million tuesday . advancers on the big board outpaced decliners by 822 to 668 . bond prices were little changed in sluggish activity . the yield on the treasury 's 30-year issue fell slightly to 8.03 % . the dollar dropped . in new york late yesterday , the currency was at 141.45 yen and 1.8485 marks , down from 142.75 yen and 1.8667 marks late tuesday .