y.j. park and her family scrimped for four years to buy a tiny apartment here , but found that the closer they got to saving the $ 40,000 0 they originally needed , the more the price rose . by this month , it had more than doubled . now the 33-year-old housewife , whose husband earns a modest salary as an assistant professor of economics , is saving harder than ever . `` i am determined to get an apartment in three years , '' she says . `` it 's all 0 i think about or talk about . '' for the parks and millions of other young koreans , the long-cherished dream of home ownership has become a cruel illusion . for the government , it has become a highly volatile political issue . last may , a government panel released a report on the extent and causes of the problem . during the past 15 years , the report showed 0 , housing prices increased nearly fivefold . the report laid the blame on speculators , who it said 0 had pushed land prices up ninefold . the panel found that since 1987 , real-estate prices rose nearly 50 % in a speculative fever fueled by economic prosperity , the 1988 seoul olympics and the government 's pledge to rapidly develop korea 's southwest . the result is that those rich enough to own any real estate at all have boosted their holdings substantially . for those with no holdings , the prospects of buying a home are ever slimmer . in 1987 , a quarter of the population owned 91 % of the nation 's 71,895 square kilometers of private land , the report said 0 , and 10 % of the population owned 65 % of the land devoted to housing . meanwhile , the government 's land bureau reports that only about a third of korean families own their own homes . rents have soared along with house prices . former national assemblyman hong sa-duk , now a radio commentator , says 0 the problem is intolerable for many people . `` i 'm afraid of a popular revolt if this situation is n't corrected , '' he adds . in fact , during the past three months there have been several demonstrations at the office complex where the land bureau is housed , and at the national assembly , demanding 0 the government put a stop to real-estate speculation . president roh tae woo 's administration has been studying the real-estate crisis for the past year with an eye to partial land redistribution . last week , the government took three bills to the national assembly . the proposed legislation is aimed at rectifying some of the inequities in the current land-ownership system . highlights of the bills , as currently framed , are : -- a restriction on the amount of real estate 0 one family can own , to 660 square meters in the nation 's six largest cities , but more in smaller cities and rural areas . the government will penalize offenders , but wo n't confiscate property . -- a tax of between 3 % and 6 % on property holdings that exceed the governmentset ceiling . -- taxes of between 15 % and 50 % a year on `` excessive '' profits from the resale of property , or the sale of idle land to the government . the government defines excessive profits as those above the average realized for other similar-sized properties in an area . -- grace periods ranging from two to five years before the full scope of the penalties takes effect . the administration says 0 the measures would stem rampant property speculation , free more land for the government 's ambitious housing-construction program , designed to build two million apartments by 1992 -- and , perhaps , boost the popular standing of president roh . but opposition legislators and others calling for help for south korea 's renters say 0 the proposed changes do n't go far enough to make it possible for ordinary people to buy a home . some want lower limits on house sizes ; others insist on progressively higher taxation for larger homes and lots . the citizens coalition for economic justice , a public-interest group leading the charge for radical reform , wants restrictions on landholdings , high taxation of capital gains , and drastic revamping of the value-assessment system on which property taxes are based . but others , large landowners , real-estate developers and business leaders , say 0 the government 's proposals are intolerable . led by the federation of korean industries , the critics are lobbying for the government to weaken its proposed restrictions and penalties . government officials who are urging real-estate reforms balk at the arguments of business leaders and chafe at their pressure . `` there is no violation of the capitalistic principle of private property in what we are doing , '' says lee kyu hwang , director of the government 's land bureau , which drafted the bills . but , he adds 0 , the constitution empowers the government to impose some controls , to mitigate the shortage of land . the land available for housing construction stands at about 46.2 square meters a person -- 18 % lower than in taiwan and only about half that of japan . mr. lee estimates that about 10,000 property speculators are operating in south korea . the chief culprits , he says 0 , are big companies and business groups that buy huge amounts of land `` not for their corporate use , but for resale at huge profit . '' one research institute calculated that as much as 67 % of corporate-owned land is held by 403 companies -- and that as little as 1.5 % of that is used for business . the government 's office of bank supervision and examination told the national assembly this month that in the first half of 1989 , the nation 's 30 largest business groups bought real estate valued at $ 1.5 billion . the ministry of finance , as a result , has proposed a series of measures that would restrict business investment in real estate even more tightly than restrictions aimed at individuals . under those measures , financial institutions would be restricted from owning any more real estate than they need for their business operations . banks , investment and credit firms would be permitted to own land equivalent in value to 50 % of their capital -- currently the proportion is 75 % . the maximum allowable property holdings for insurance companies would be reduced to 10 % of their total asset value , down from 15 % currently . but mrs. park acknowledges that even if the policies work to slow or stop speculation , apartment prices are unlikely to go down . at best , she realizes 0 , they will rise more slowly -- more slowly , she hopes 0 , than her family 's income .