this has n't been kellogg co. 's year . the oat-bran craze has cost the world 's largest cereal maker market share . the company 's president quit suddenly . and now kellogg is indefinitely suspending work on what was to be a $ 1 billion cereal plant . the company said 0 it was delaying construction because of current market conditions . but the memphis , tenn. , facility was n't to begin turning out product until 1993 , so the decision may reveal a more pessimistic long-term outlook as well . kellogg , which has n't been as successful in capitalizing on the public 's health-oriented desire for oat bran as rival general mills inc. , has been losing share in the $ 6 billion ready-to-eat cereal market . kellogg 's current share is believed to be slightly under 40 % while general mills ' share is about 27 % . led by its oat-based cheerios line , general mills has gained an estimated 2 % share so far this year , mostly at the expense of kellogg . each share point is worth about $ 60 million in sales . analysts say 0 much of kellogg 's erosion has been in such core brands as corn flakes , rice krispies and frosted flakes , which represent nearly one-third of its sales volume . kellogg is so anxious to turn around corn flakes sales that it soon will begin selling boxes for as little as 99 cents , trade sources say 0 . `` cheerios and honey nut cheerios have eaten away sales normally going to kellogg 's corn-based lines simply because they are made of oats , '' says merrill lynch food analyst william maguire . `` they are not a happy group of people at battle creek right now . '' kellogg is based in battle creek , mich. , a city that calls itself the breakfast capital of the world . another analyst , john c. maxwell jr. of wheat , first securities in richmond , va. , recently went to a `` sell '' recommendation on kellogg stock , which closed friday at $ 71.75 , down 75 cents , in new york stock exchange composite trading . `` i do n't think 0 kellogg can get back to 40 % this year , '' he said . `` kellogg 's main problem is life style . people are reading the boxes and deciding 0 they want something that 's ` healthy ' for you -- oats , bran . '' mr. maxwell said 0 he would n't be surprised if , over the next two years or so , general mills ' share increased to 30 % or more . in announcing the plant delay , kellogg chairman william e. lamothe said , `` cereal volume growth in the u.s. has not met our expectations for 1989 . '' he said 0 construction would n't resume until market conditions warrant it . kellogg indicated that it has room 0 to grow without adding facilities . the company has five other u.s. plants , including a modern facility at its battle creek headquarters known as building 100 , which is to add bran-processing and rice-processing capacity next year . general mills , meanwhile , finds itself constrained from boosting sales further because its plants are operating at capacity . a large plant in covington , ga. , is to come on line next year . a kellogg officer , who asked not to be named , said 0 the memphis project was `` pulled in for a reconsideration of costs , '' an indication that the ambitious plans might be scaled back in any future construction . initial cost estimates for the plant , which was to have been built in phases , ranged from $ 1 billion to $ 1.2 billion . a company spokesman said 0 it was `` possible , but highly unlikely , '' that the plant might never be built . `` as we regain our leadership level where we have been , and as we continue to put new products into the marketplace and need additional capacity , we will look at resuming our involvement with our plan , '' he said . the new facility was to have been the world 's most advanced cereal manufacturing plant , and kellogg 's largest construction project . the company had retained the fluor daniel unit of fluor corp. as general contractor . but in recent weeks , construction-industry sources reported that early preparation work was slowing at the 185-acre site . subcontractors said 0 they were told that equipment orders would be delayed . fluor daniel already has reassigned most of its work crew , the sources said 0 . last friday 's announcement was the first official word that the project was in trouble and that the company 's plans for a surge in market share may have been overly optimistic . until recently , kellogg had been telling its sales force and wall street that by 1992 it intended to achieve a 50 % share of market , measured in dollar volume . although he called current market conditions `` highly competitive , '' mr. lamothe , kellogg 's chairman and chief executive officer , forecast an earnings increase for the full year . last year , the company earned $ 480.4 million , or $ 3.90 a share , on sales of $ 4.3 billion . as expected , kellogg reported lower third-quarter earnings . net fell 16 % to $ 123.1 million , or $ 1.02 a share , from $ 145.7 million , or $ 1.18 a share . sales rose 4.8 % to $ 1.20 billion from $ 1.14 billion . the company had a one-time charge of $ 14.8 million in the latest quarter covering the disposition of certain assets . the company would n't elaborate , citing competitive reasons .