in the bidding war for public service co. of new hampshire , united illuminating co. raised its proposed offer to one 0 it valued at $ 2.29 billion from $ 2.19 billion , apparently topping all other bidders . the bids remain subject to evaluation by the federal bankruptcy court supervising ps of new hampshire 's reorganization . they are also indirectly subject to approval by the state of new hampshire , where residents fear soaring rates 0 to pay for the cost of reorganization . each of the four parties bidding for ps of new hampshire proposes a complex financial package 0 to satisfy creditors and shareholders and also proposes a formula 0 to limit rate increases to satisfy the state . the new round of bidding would seem to complicate the decision making for judge james yacos , the bankruptcy judge overseeing the case , because the company 's stockholders , unsecured creditors and regulators each are currently backing different plans . in addition , some of the proposals are so close , that non-financial issues such as timing may play a more important role . the unsecured creditors agreed in principle to support new haven , conn.-based united illuminating 's new bid . they previously had backed an internal reorganization plan proposed by ps of new hampshire . all of the bidders contemplate full payment including interest to secured creditors . united illuminating 's plan , however , offers more for unsecured creditors . geoffrey kalmus , counsel to the official creditors committee , said that under the united illuminating plan , unsecured creditors would be paid in full credits and interest of about $ 855 million , accrued before ps of new hampshire 's jan. 1988 filing for bankruptcy court protection . in addition , they would receive some $ 200 million in payments for interest since then . mr. kalmus said that by next july they would have accrued unpaid interest equal to $ 350 million . other plans generally would n't pay unsecured creditors ' interest accrued since the filing . under united illuminating 's plan , a new holding company would be formed 0 to own the two companies . it would be 72%-owned by united illuminating holders and 28%-owned by current holders of ps of new hampshire preferred and common stock . ps of new hampshire preferred holders also would get certain debentures and preferred stock . united illuminating said 0 the preferred holders total package would equal about 60 % of their claims . common shareholders would end up owning about 6.4 % of the combined company . as previously reported , northeast utilities , hartford , conn. , monday filed a bid 0 it valued at $ 2.25 billion . that offer was endorsed by the shareholders committee . the other bidders , new england electric system , westboro , mass. , and ps of new hampshire , did n't change the value of their bids , although ps of new hampshire changed its rate proposal . new england electric values its offer at $ 2 billion and ps of new hampshire values its reorganization plan at $ 2.2 billion . the bankruptcy judge has ruled that federal bankruptcy laws could be used to circumvent state regulation . however , creditors and bidders alike concede that the state plays a major role because it could significantly delay final settlement of a plan 0 it did n't like . the state has endorsed the new england electric plan , which promises to limit rate increases to 4.8 % annually for seven years . northeast utilities ' plan proposes 5.5 % annual increases . ps of new hampshire amended its plan to call for two years of 5.5 % rate increases followed by five years of 4.5 % increases . fuel cost adjustments could change the effective rate increases , however . previously it had proposed seven years of 5.5 % increases . united illuminating also amended its rate plan . the new offer assumes just five years of 5.5 % rate increases , 0 to be followed by state-approved increases under the usual hearing procedure . previously united illuminating had also called for seven years of 5.5 % increases . the bids and rate proposals generally assume 0 the seabrook nuclear power plant , which is completed , will go into operation . most of the plans have reduced bids in case the plant fails to get a license from the nuclear regulatory commission . in new york stock exchange trading , ps of new hampshire 's 17 1\/2 debenture due 2004 closed yesterday at $ 82.50 , up $ 2 . the utility 's stock closed at $ 4 a share , up 37.5 cents , in composite trading on the big board . in a separate development , ps of new hampshire gave 60 managers severance agreements that would pay one to three years ' salary if their jobs were changed or they were dismissed in the wake of a takeover . it said 0 the maximum cost of the plan would be $ 9.7 million .