at least 10 states are resisting drexel burnham lambert inc. 's nationwide effort 0 to settle its legal troubles , and some might instead try to revoke the firm 's license 0 to sell securities within their borders . the reluctance of some states 0 to let drexel off the hook could hamper the firm 's attempts to polish its image after its guilty plea to six felonies last month , say 0 several people familiar with the discussions . up to now , drexel has made a rapid-fire series of settlements with 25 states and the commonwealth of puerto rico . just yesterday , new hampshire announced 0 it made a $ 75,000 settlement with drexel , a record-tying fine for a securities-law matter in that state . these states have been entering into settlements with drexel as part of the firm 's efforts 0 to operate freely anywhere in the u.s. despite its record as an admitted felon . but individuals familiar with the generally successful drexel talks say 0 the firm is meeting resistance from some big states , including new jersey , new york , california , pennsylvania , connecticut and missouri . officials in some of these states say 0 they do n't want to simply accept the settlements offered by drexel . they question if drexel is getting easier treatment than the many small penny-stock firms whose brokerage licenses are routinely revoked . drexel has to settle with state securities regulators in the wake of its criminal guilty plea and a related civil settlement with the securities and exchange commission that includes payment of $ 650 million in penalties . these stem from a two-year federal investigation of insider trading and securities fraud on wall street . ohio , the district of columbia , tennessee and illinois have been less resistant to drexel than the other six states , but nonetheless have refused to settle so far , say 0 those familiar with the discussions . drexel says 0 it does n't expect 0 any of its state brokerage licenses will be revoked , and even if some are , its securities business would n't be directly hurt . it already has sold its retail , or individual-investor , brokerage network ; securities firms do n't need brokerage licenses for non-retail activities such as investment banking . still , if nothing else , a revoked brokerage license could be a burden because it must be disclosed in many of the transactions in which drexel could be involved . securities regulators praise drexel for its energetic effort , led by government-approved general counsel saul s. cohen , 0 to settle its legal problems with the states . but they disagree about the message 0 these settlements give to the public . `` there was a lot of internal debate about that specific issue , '' said susan bryant , oklahoma 's chief securities regulator and president of the north american securities administrators association , which drafted a voluntary settlement plan for the states with drexel . the question , she said 0 , is whether drexel should be allowed to pay and move on , or `` whether you should -lrb- simply -rrb- revoke the license when someone is convicted of a felony . '' while ms. bryant 's state went ahead and accepted drexel 's settlement offer of $ 25,000 , she said : `` i do n't have any argument with those who came to different conclusions . i can see both sides . '' similarly , alfred rubega , new hampshire 's director of securities regulation , said 0 his state had n't received any complaints about drexel , so it really could n't press the issue . still , `` i understand the reasons '' that other states are holding out , he said 0 . mr. cohen , the drexel general counsel , said , `` i do n't think , as we say in investment banking , that ` by the end of the day ' we 'll be losing any licenses . '' asked about states that are taking a hard line , he said , `` there are states that have asked for additional information , which we are providing to them . '' mr. cohen said 0 more than $ 2.8 million has been paid to 26 states and that drexel still expects to pay out a total of $ 11.5 million . by the end of this week , drexel should have another three to four settlements , mr. cohen said . `` the rate 0 we 're going , i think that by the end of the month , we 're looking to have a total of 30 to 35 , '' he said . that total would be important for drexel . the investment bank has previously announced that as part of its punishment it would create an independent foundation 0 to promote ethical behavior in the securities industry . a proviso to that promise is that a minimum of 35 states reach settlement agreements before next tuesday . there are , according to several securities commissioners , at least 16 states that are either close to settlements with drexel or who do n't appear opposed to settling . drexel 's proposed state fines have been based on a state 's population and on the size of drexel 's business in the state . new jersey , for example , was asked to accept $ 300,000 , but refused . the state is n't ruling out revoking drexel 's brokerage license . the state can also bar drexel as an investment adviser . state officials wo n't describe their position in detail , but james mclelland smith , state securities chief , said : `` we really are still looking at it and have informed -lrb- drexel -rrb- that the proposal is really not sufficient for settlement . '' connecticut already has issued a `` notice of intent '' to revoke drexel 's brokerage license . it is one of the states that have met with mr. cohen and asked for additional information about investors ' accounts and other matters . `` this particular issue goes to the very integrity of the capital-formation market , '' state banking commissioner howard brown said . a banking department spokesman added : `` commissioner brown does n't feel 0 that money alone is the issue here . '' particularly touchy are the cases of new york , which is drexel 's base , and california , the base of drexel 's highly profitable junk-bond operation that led to the firm 's legal difficulties . neither state has settled , and officials in the two states wo n't discuss their reasons for not doing so . but drexel has made it clear 0 it could mount a significant legal battle in each state if its license is revoked , according to state officials . ms. bryant , the head of the state securities group , said 0 drexel has done a better job of settling with the states than e.f. hutton did after its guilty plea to a massive check-kiting scheme several years ago . still , she said 0 , drexel 's trouble with some states is n't a bad thing . `` this process should point out that it 's not going to be easy for a firm that 's convicted of a felony to immediately jump back into the retail business , '' ms. bryant said . `` we need to have somebody worried so they do n't do this again . '' these are the 26 states , including the commonwealth of puerto rico , that have settled with drexel : alaska , arkansas , delaware , georgia , hawaii , idaho , indiana , iowa , kansas , kentucky , maine , maryland , minnesota , mississippi , new hampshire , new mexico , north dakota , oklahoma , oregon , south carolina , south dakota , utah , vermont , washington , wyoming and puerto rico .