after watching interest in the sport plummet for years , the ski industry is trying to give itself a lift . across the country , resorts are using everything from fireworks to classical-music concerts to attract new customers . some have built health spas , business centers and shopping villages so visitors have more 0 to do than ski . and this week , the industry 's efforts will go national for the first time when it unveils a $ 7 million advertising campaign . such efforts -- unheard of only a few years ago -- are the latest attempts to revive the sagging $ 1.76 billion u.s. ski industry . since the start of the decade , lift-ticket sales have grown only 3 % a year on average , compared with 16 % annual growth rates in the '60s and '70s . last season , lift-ticket sales fell for the first time in seven years . by some estimates , nearly a fourth of all u.s. ski areas have been forced to shut down since the early '80s . competition and mounting insurance and equipment costs have been the undoing of many resorts . but another big problem has been the aging of baby boomers . skiing , after all , has mainly been for the young and daring and many baby boomers have outgrown skiing or have too many family responsibilities 0 to stick with the sport . in its new ad campaign , created by d'arcy masius benton & bowles inc. , chicago , the ski industry is trying to change its image as a sport primarily for young white people . one 60-second tv spot features a diverse group of skiers gracefully gliding down sun-drenched slopes : senior citizens , minorities , families with children -- even a blind skier . `` ski school is great , '' cries out a tot , bundled in a snowsuit as he plows down a bunny slope . `` you 'll never know 'til you try , '' says a black skier . `` we used to show some hot-dog skier in his twenties or thirties going over the edge of a cliff , '' says kathe dillmann , a spokeswoman for the united ski industries association , the trade group sponsoring the campaign . ski promotions have traditionally avoided the touchy issue of safety . but the new commercials deal with it indirectly by showing a woman smiling as she tries to get up from a fall . `` we wanted to show 0 it 's okay if you fall , '' says ms. dillmann . `` most people think 0 if you slip , you 'll wind up in a body cast . '' the ad campaign represents an unusual spirit of cooperation among resorts and ski equipment makers ; normally , they only run ads hyping their own products and facilities . but in these crunch times for the ski industry , some resorts , such as the angel fire , red river and taos ski areas in new mexico , have even started shuttle-busing skiers to each other 's slopes and next year plan to sell tickets good for all local lifts . many resorts also are focusing more on the service side of their business . since 40 % of skiers are parents , many slopes are building nurseries , expanding ski schools and adding entertainment for kids . vail , colo. , now has a playland that looks like an old mining town ; kids can ski through and pan for fool 's gold . for $ 15 , they can enjoy their own nightly entertainment , with dinner , without mom and dad . a few years ago , parents usually had to hire a sitter or take turns skiing while one spouse stayed with the children . `` most parents who had to go through that never came back , '' says michael shannon , president of vail associates inc. , which owns and operates the vail and nearby beaver creek resorts . to make skiing more convenient for time-strapped visitors , several resorts are buying or starting their own travel agencies . in one phone call , ski buffs can make hotel and restaurant reservations , buy lift tickets , rent ski equipment and sign up for lessons . and resorts are adding other amenities , such as pricey restaurants , health spas and vacation packages with a twist . during winter carnival week , for example , visitors at sunday river in maine can take a hot-air balloon ride . `` people these days want something else 0 to do besides ski and sit in the bar , '' says don borgeson , executive director of angel fire , n.m. 's chamber of commerce . the ski industry hopes to increase the number of skiers by 3.5 million to about 21.7 million in the next five years with its latest ads and promotions . but some think 0 that 's being overly optimistic . for one thing , it may be tough to attract people because skiing is still expensive : a lift ticket can cost up to $ 35 a day and equipment prices are rising . and most vacationers still prefer a warm climate for their winter excursions . an american express co. survey of its travel agents revealed that only 34 % believe 0 their clients will pick a trip this winter based on the availability of winter sports , as opposed to 69 % who think that warm-weather sports will be the deciding factor . `` even if they could bring in that many new skiers , i do n't know if -lcb- the industry -rcb- could handle that kind of an increase , '' says i. william berry , editor and publisher of the ski industry letter in katonah , n.y . `` most people will come on the weekend , the slopes will be overcrowded and then these -lcb- new skiers -rcb- wo n't come back .