avis inc. , following rival hertz corp. 's lead , said 0 it is backing out of frequent-flier programs with three airlines . the garden city , n.y. , car-rental company said 0 it wo n't renew contracts with nwa inc. 's northwest airlines unit , pan am corp. 's pan american world airways unit and midway airlines at the end of this year . but it remains involved in programs with amr corp. 's american airlines unit and delta air lines . industry estimates put avis 's annual cost of all five programs at between $ 8 million and $ 14 million . a spokesman for avis would n't specify the costs but said 0 the three airlines being dropped account for `` far less than half '' of the total . budget rent a car corp. , of chicago , and national car rental systems inc. , of minneapolis , both said 0 they had no plans to follow suit . in fact , budget indicated 0 it saw some benefit to staying involved in these programs , in which renters earn frequent-flier miles and fliers can get car-rental discounts . `` i can not see how this news by hertz and avis can not benefit budget 's programs , '' said bob wilson , budget 's vice president , marketing planning . northwest and midway are two of the five airlines with which budget has agreements . national also participates in the northwest frequent-flier program along with four other airlines , including delta and usair group inc. 's usair unit . a month ago , hertz , of park ridge , n.j. , said that it would drop its marketing agreements at year end with delta , america west and texas air corp. 's continental airlines and eastern airlines , and that pacts with american airlines , ual inc 's united airlines and usair also would be ended ... sometime after dec. 31 . at the time , hertz said 0 its annual fees to those airlines amounted to $ 20 million and that the value of redeemed awards topped $ 15 million . analysts and competitors , however , doubt 0 the numbers were that high . budget said 0 its frequent-flier costs are `` substantially below '' avis 's level . robert d. cardillo , avis vice president of marketing , said , 0 `` the proliferation and costs attached to -lcb- frequent-flier programs -rcb- have significantly diminished their value . '' this year has been difficult for both hertz and avis , said 0 charles finnie , car-rental industry analyst at alex . brown & sons . `` they 've been looking to get their costs down , and this is a fairly sensible way 0 to do it , '' he said .