the stock market correction of oct. 13 , 1989 , was a grim reminder of the oct. 19 , 1987 market collapse . since , like earthquakes , stock market disturbances will always be with us , it is prudent to take all possible precautions against another such market collapse . in general , markets function well and adjust smoothly to changing economic and financial circumstances . but there are times when they seize up , and panicky sellers can not find buyers . that 's just what happened in the october 1987 crash . as the market tumbled , disorderly market conditions prevailed : the margins between buying bids and selling bids widened ; trading in many stocks was suspended ; orders took unduly long to be executed ; and many specialists stopped trading altogether . these failures in turn contributed to the fall in the market averages : uncertainty extracted an extra risk premium and margin-calls triggered additional selling pressures . the situation was like that of a skier who is thrown slightly off balance by an unexpected bump on the slope . his skis spread farther and farther apart -- just as buy-sell spreads widen during a financial panic -- and soon he is out of control . unable to stop his accelerating descent , he crashes . after the 1987 crash , and as a result of the recommendations of many studies , `` circuit breakers '' were devised to allow market participants to regroup and restore orderly market conditions . it 's doubtful , though , whether circuit breakers do any real good . in the additional time 0 they provide even more order imbalances might pile up , as would-be sellers finally get their broker on the phone . instead , an appropriate institution should be charged with the job of preventing chaos in the market : the federal reserve . the availability of timely assistance -- of a backstop -- can help markets retain their resilience . the fed already buys and sells foreign exchange to prevent disorderly conditions in foreign-exchange markets . the fed has assumed a similar responsibility in the market for government securities . the stock market is the only major market without a market-maker of unchallenged liquidity or a buyer of last resort . this does not mean that the federal reserve does not already play an important indirect role in the stock market . in 1987 , it pumped billions into the markets through open market operations and the discount window . it lent money to banks and encouraged them to make funds available to brokerage houses . they , in turn , lent money to their customers -- who were supposed to recognize the opportunity 0 to make a profit in the turmoil and buy shares . the fed also has the power 0 to set margin requirements . but would n't it be more efficient and effective to supply such support to the stock market directly ? instead of flooding the entire economy with liquidity , and thereby increasing the danger of inflation , the fed could support the stock market directly by buying market averages in the futures market , thus stabilizing the market as a whole . the stock market is certainly not too big for the fed to handle . the foreign-exchange and government securities markets are vastly larger . daily trading volume in the new york foreign exchange market is $ 130 billion . the daily volume for treasury securities is about $ 110 billion . the combined value of daily equity trading on the new york exchange , the american stock exchange and the nasdaq over-the-counter market ranges between $ 7 billion and $ 10 billion . the $ 13 billion 0 the fed injected into the money markets after the 1987 crash is more than enough to buy all the stocks traded on a typical day . more carefully targeted intervention might actually reduce the need for government action . and taking more direct action has the advantage of avoiding sharp increases in the money supply , such as happened in october 1987 . the fed 's stock market role ought not to be very ambitious . it should seek only to maintain the functioning of markets -- not to prop up the dow jones or new york stock exchange averages at a particular level . the fed should guard against systemic risk , but not against the risks inherent in individual stocks . it would be inappropriate for the government or the central bank to buy or sell ibm or general motors shares . instead , the fed could buy the broad market composites in the futures market . the increased demand would normalize trading and stabilize prices . stabilizing the derivative markets would tend to stabilize the primary market . the fed would eliminate the cause of the potential panic rather than attempting to treat the symptom -- the liquidity of the banks . disorderly market conditions could be observed quite frequently in foreign exchange markets in the 1960s and 1970s . but since the member countries of the international monetary fund agreed to the `` guidelines to floating '' in 1974 , such difficulties have been avoided . i can not recall any disorder in currency markets since the 1974 guidelines were adopted . thus , the mere existence of a market-stabilizing agency helps to avoid panic in emergencies . the old saying advises : `` if it ai n't broke , do n't fix it . '' but this could be a case where we all might go broke if it is n't fixed . mr. heller , now at visa international , was a governor of the federal reserve board from 1986 until earlier this year . this is adapted from a speech to the commonwealth club in san francisco .