boston co. , the upper-crust financial services concern that was rocked by a management scandal late last year , has had a sharp drop in profitability -- mainly because a high-risk bet on interest rates backfired . boston co. 's fall from grace is bad news for its parent , shearson lehman hutton holdings inc. , which has relied heavily on the banking and money management unit 's contributions in recent years . in 1988 , for example , boston co. had an estimated pretax profit of at least $ 110 million , while shearson managed net income of just $ 96 million . shearson does n't break out the earnings of its subsidiaries . but people familiar with boston co. 's performance say 0 the unit had profit of around $ 17 million for the third quarter , after barely breaking even for the first six months . shearson , meanwhile , posted net income of $ 106 million for the first nine months of the year , down slightly from $ 110 million for the year-ago period . moody 's investors service inc. last week downgraded the long-term deposit rating of boston co. 's boston safe deposit & trust co. subsidiary , to single-a-1 from double-a-3 , citing problems in the company 's `` aggressively managed securities portfolio . '' john kriz , a moody 's vice president , said 0 boston safe deposit 's performance has been hurt this year by a mismatch in the maturities of its assets and liabilities . the mismatch exposed the company to a high degree of interest-rate risk , and when rates moved unfavorably -- beginning late last year and continuing into this year -- `` it cost them , '' mr. kriz said 0 . mr. kriz noted that boston safe deposit `` has taken some actions to better control asset-liability management and improve controls in general , and we think 0 these will serve to improve credit quality . '' as some securities mature and the proceeds are reinvested , the problems ought to ease , he said 0 . but he also cited concerns over the company 's mortgage exposure in the troubled new england real estate market . boston co. officials declined to comment on moody 's action or on the unit 's financial performance this year -- except to deny a published report that outside accountants had discovered evidence of significant accounting errors in the first three quarters ' results . an accounting controversy at the end of last year forced boston co. to admit 0 it had overstated pretax profits by some $ 44 million . the resulting scandal led to the firing of james n. von germeten as boston co. 's president and to the resignations of the company 's chief financial officer and treasurer . the executives were accused of improperly deferring expenses and booking revenue early , in an effort to dress up results -- and perhaps bolster performance-related bonuses . mr. von germeten , in turn , attributed the controversy to judgmental errors by accountants and accused shearson of conducting a `` witch hunt . '' mr. kriz of moody 's said 0 the problems in the securities portfolio stem largely from positions taken last year . the company 's current management found itself `` locked into this , '' he said 0 .