it was supposed to be a routine courtesy call . a half-dozen soviet space officials , in tokyo in july for an exhibit , stopped by to see their counterparts at the national space development agency of japan . but after a few pleasantries , the soviets unexpectedly got serious . the soviets have a world-leading space program , the guests noted 0 . would n't the japanese like a piece of it ? the visitors then listed technologies up for sale , including launch services and propulsion hardware . `` we were just surprised , '' says tad inada , nasda 's director for international affairs . `` shocked . '' that moscow , with its dilapidated economic machine , would try to sell high technology to japan , one of the world 's high-tech leaders , sounds like a coals-to-newcastle notion . but `` the soviet union has areas where it is n't behind japan , '' says mikhail shapovalov of the soviet ministry of foreign economic relations . `` we have obtained through the development of cosmos -lcb- the soviet space program -rcb- technologies 0 you do n't see anywhere else . '' the sales pitch might n't be as farfetched as it seems . japan-u.s. trade relations are bumpy these days , and some japanese favor decreasing their reliance on u.s. technology in light of the fsx fighter-plane flap , when u.s. officials reversed an earlier decision and refused to share certain crucial fighter-plane technology . and , despite its image as a technology superpower , japan has a lot of weaknesses . it 's a world leader in semiconductors , but behind the u.s. in making the computers that use those chips . it 's a world leader in auto manufacturing , but its aviation industry is struggling , and its space program is years behind the u.s. , the europeans and the soviets . one question being debated in the soviet union is how to use the defense sector 's research-and-production expertise in the rest of the economy . many plants that used to make military equipment are now being ordered to produce televisions , videocassette recorders , small tractors and food-processing machinery . the soviets also hope to make better use of their considerable expertise in theoretical science , which has helped them win twice as many nobel science prizes as the japanese . where they lag behind the japanese is in turning the scientific inventiveness into improved production . by contrast , the japanese have proved adept at making use of soviet inventions . kobe steel ltd. adopted soviet casting technology in 1966 and used it for 14 years until it developed its own system . kawasaki steel corp. bought a soviet steel-casting patent two years ago and has jointly developed the system with the soviets . in 1991 , the soviets will take a japanese journalist into space , the first japanese to go into orbit . soviet efforts to sell their technology abroad do n't appear to worry the u.s. , japan 's principal ally . `` we have never opposed the development of economic relations between our allies and the soviet union , '' says a state department official . `` frankly , i would n't expect the japanese to get hooked on anybody 's technology , least of all the soviets . '' under mikhail gorbachev 's perestroika , the soviets have sought economic ties all over the world , including new export markets . they believe 0 technology is one of their best bets , and some soviet officials say 0 moscow will even consider declassifying military know-how if the price is right . the soviets held export exhibitions that included high-tech items in new york and west germany . last week , a soviet delegation came to japan to push more space technologies . japan is a major target for the soviets . in august , representatives of keidanren , japan 's largest business organization , visited moscow to explore exports and investments that would help the soviet economy . out of the blue , the soviet chamber of commerce handed over details on 59 technologies that the japanese might want to buy . these mainly involved such areas as materials -- advanced soldering machines , for example -- and medical developments derived from experimentation in space , such as artificial blood vessels . a main motive is hard cash . but , while the soviets ca n't expect direct technology flow from japan , they also hope to benefit from japanese manufacturing expertise . `` the soviet union has a lot of know-how , but it has been difficult to put that into actual production because of various structural problems in the economy , '' says mr. shapovalov , the foreign ministry official . the soviets are `` contemplating a flexible system under which it would be possible to develop -lcb- technology -rcb- jointly and even to market it jointly , '' he says 0 . even if the japanese find soviet technology desirable , such discussions would be fraught with political complications . still stinging from the international backlash over the sale two years ago of sensitive military technology to the soviets by a subsidiary of japan 's toshiba corp. , many japanese are eager to avoid appearing to help the soviets in any way . another hurdle concerns japan 's attempts to persuade the soviet union to relinquish its post-world war ii control of four islands north of japan . so far , the soviets have provided only the sketchiest information about their technology and business plans . and what they have shown is n't impressive . `` my impression is that there is n't anything which arouses our interest at first glance , '' says an official from japan 's ministry of international trade and industry . peter gumbel in moscow contributed to this article .