it is now a commonplace that prosecutors are bringing criminal indictments in cases where until a few years ago only a civil action at most would have been brought . yet it is also axiomatic that the power to create new crimes belongs only to the legislature , and not to courts . beginning in the early 19th century , with u.s. v. hudson and goodwin , the supreme court has repeatedly held that a judicial power to declare conduct to be against the public interest and hence criminal , while well established in british law , would usurp legislative authority under the doctrine of separation of powers . that 's the conventional theory anyway . in practice , however , the line between interpretation and redefinition of the criminal law long ago began to blur . in particular , a common law of white-collar crime has developed with surprising rapidity over the past decade . for example , although insider trading has long been criminal , it has never been statutorily defined . in 1983 , the supreme court tried to supply a workable definition in the dirks v. sec decision , which found that liability depended on whether the tipper had breached his fiduciary duty to the corporation in order to obtain `` some personal gain '' and whether the tippee knew or recklessly disregarded this fact . gradually , however , lower courts and prosecutors have pushed this definition to its breaking point . consider the facts underlying the 1989 conviction of robert chestman . prior to a tender offer by a&p for waldbaum inc. in 1986 , the founder of the waldbaum 's supermarket chain called an elderly relative to tell her to assemble her stock certificates for delivery . she called her daughter to take her to the bank , who , in turn , persuaded her husband , a mr. loeb , to run this errand . hearing of this information , the husband discussed it with his broker , mr. chestman , and mr. chestman then bought for his own account and other clients . basically , mr. chestman was a fourth-level tippee . did mr. loeb , his tipper , breach a fiduciary duty -lrb- and , if so , to whom -rrb- ? did mr. loeb seek personal gain -lrb- and if so , how -rrb- ? or did mr. chestman only hear a market rumor -lrb- which one may lawfully trade upon -rrb- ? the line seems awfully thin for criminal-law purposes . a second illustration is supplied by the recent guilty plea entered by robert freeman , formerly head of arbitrage at goldman , sachs & co . essentially , mr. freeman had invested heavily in the beatrice leveraged buy-out , when he was told by another prominent trader , bernard `` bunny '' lasker , that the deal was in trouble . after placing orders to sell , mr. freeman called martin siegel , an investment banker at kidder , peabody & co. , who was advising on the deal , to confirm these rumors . mr. siegel asked mr. freeman who his source was and , on hearing that it was bunny lasker , responded : `` 0 well , your bunny has a good nose . '' the illegal `` tip '' of the bunny 's good nose was then largely a confirmation of rumors already known to many in the market . had the case gone to trial the same issues would have surfaced : was there a fiduciary breach in order to obtain personal gain ? did mr. freeman have notice of this ? finally , was the information material ? yet , all these issues are subsidiary to a more central issue : who is and who should be making the criminal law here ? it is not my contention that either mr. chestman or mr. freeman was an innocent victim of prosecutorial overzealousness . arguably , both were on notice that their behavior was at least risky . but even if they behaved recklessly , reasons still exist to fear and resist this steady process of case-by-case judicial extension of the law of insider trading . courts and legislatures make decisions in very different ways and are each susceptible to very different kinds of errors . after-the-fact judicial examination of an actor 's conduct has always been the common law 's method . when only civil liability is involved , this method has the undeniable strengths of factual specificity and avoidance of overgeneralization . still , case-by-case retrospective decision making of this sort is vulnerable to the tunnel vision caused by a fixation on ad hoc -lrb- and usually sleazy -rrb- examples . when a court decides that a particular actor 's conduct was culpable and so extends the definition of insider trading to reach this conduct , it does not see the potentially enormous number of other cases that will be covered by the expanded rule . thus , a court is poorly positioned to make judgments about the social utility of the expanded rule . for example , in focusing on mr. freeman 's attempt to gain nonpublic information about a deal 's collapse , one does not naturally think about the reverse side of the coin : what if the rumor had been false ? can a security analyst call an investment banker to make certain that a seemingly improbable rumor is in fact false ? in the past , not only would reputable professionals have rushed to check out such rumors with the company , but companies listed on the major stock exchanges were encouraged by the exchanges to respond openly to such inquiries from securities analysts . today , after mr. freeman 's plea , there is an uncertainty that is both unfair and inefficient . in this light , the comparative advantages of legislative law-making become clear : -lrb- 1 -rrb- before it acts , the legislature typically will hear the views of representatives of all those affected by its decision , not just the immediate parties before the court ; and -lrb- 2 -rrb- the legislature can frame `` bright line '' standards that create less uncertainty than the fact-bound decisions of courts . although legislative lines can result in under-inclusion -lrb- which explains why the sec has long resisted a legislative definition of insider trading -rrb- , judicial lawmaking inevitably creates uncertainty because of the shadowy outer edges and implications of most judicial decisions . at least when the stakes are high , uncertainty in turn results in overinclusion , as individuals do not dare to approach an uncertain line closely . the federal mail and wire fraud statutes provide even better illustrations of the rapid evolution of a federal common law of white-collar crime . in 1987 , the supreme court attempted in mcnally v. u.s. to halt the inexorable expansion of these statutes by adopting a rule of strict construction for ambiguous criminal statues . yet , late last year , congress effectively reversed this decision by enacting a one-sentence statute that defined fraud to include any scheme to deprive another of `` the intangible right of honest services . '' at a stroke , this may criminalize all fiduciary breaches -lrb- and possibly all misrepresentations by an agent or employee -rrb- . such a statute illustrates the fundamental problem : congress finds 0 it is easier to pass sweepingly moralistic prohibitions , which the courts must thereafter interpret , than to engage in the difficult line-drawing distinctions that are inherently its responsibility . we are confronted less with a judicial power grab than with a legislative giveaway . predictably , when confronted with morally dubious behavior , prosecutors will exploit the latitude 0 such openended statutes give them . over the long run , however , sleazy cases will make bad law . mr. coffee is a professor at columbia law school .