sheraton corp. and pan american world airways announced that they and two soviet partners will construct two `` world-class '' hotels within a mile of red square in moscow . u.s. and soviet officials hailed the joint project as a new indication of the further thaw in u.s.-soviet relations . `` this is an outstanding example of how the east and the west can work together for their mutual benefit and progress , '' said soviet ambassador yuri dubinin , who hosted a signing ceremony for the venture 's partners at the soviet embassy here . commerce secretary robert mosbacher , who attended the ceremony , called the undertaking a `` historic step '' in the evolution of u.s.-soviet ties . he added that it likely will have a `` mulitiplier effect '' in stimulating further trade between the two countries . the project will be the largest u.s.-backed joint venture 0 to be undertaken in the soviet union in recent years . one of the hotels , 0 to be called the sheraton moscow , will have 450 rooms and will cost an estimated $ 75 million to build . the six-story hotel will be on gorky street and initially will cater mostly to business travelers . it will have a russian tavern , an english pub , a discotheque and japanese and italian restaurants , according to a sheraton announcement . the hotel is scheduled to open in 1992 . the second hotel , 0 to be called the budapest hotel , is to be constructed at a site even closer to red square . details about its size and cost have n't yet been determined . sheraton , a subsidiary of itt corp. , will have a 40 % share in the two hotels ; pan american , a subsidiary of pan am corp. , will have a 10 % share . the soviet owners will be mossoviet , moscow 's city governing body , and aeroflot , the soviet national airline . although a finnish group has a minority interest in an already operating moscow hotel , the sheraton-pan am venture will be the first joint-venture hotels in the soviet union 0 to have as much as 50 % foreign ownership . u.s. companies account for less than 8 % of the 1,000 or more soviet joint ventures that have been announced since the soviets began encouraging such undertakings in 1987 . but some u.s. companies are negotiating projects that could be among the biggest ones 0 to be launched . chevron corp. , amoco corp. , archer-daniels-midland co. , and eastman kodak co. are among the u.s. companies known to be considering such ventures . sheraton and pan am said 0 they are assured under the soviet joint-venture law that they can repatriate profits from their hotel venture . the sheraton moscow will charge about $ 140 to $ 150 a day for each of its rooms , and it will accept payment only in currencies that can be traded in foreign exchange markets , according to a sheraton executive . thomas plaskett , pan am 's chairman , said 0 the u.s. airline 's participation is a natural outgrowth of its current arrangements with aeroflot to jointly operate nonstop new york-moscow flights . he said 0 the rising volume of passenger traffic on this route justifies a major investment in new high-standard moscow hotels .