the `` seismic '' activity of a financial market bears a resemblance to the seismic activity of the earth . when things are quiet -lrb- low volatility -rrb- , the structures on which markets stand can be relatively inefficient and still perform their functions adequately . however , when powerful forces start shaking the market 's structure , the more `` earthquake-resistant '' it is , the better its chance for survival . america 's financial markets do not yet have all the required modern features required to make them fully `` aftershock-resistant . '' investors lack equal access to the markets ' trading arena and its information . that structural lack is crucial because investors are the only source of market liquidity . and liquidity is what markets need to damp quakes and aftershocks . in today 's markets , specialists -lrb- on the new york stock exchange -rrb- and `` upstairs '' market makers -lrb- in the over-the-counter market -rrb- are the only market participants allowed to play a direct role in the price-determination process . when they halt trading , all market liquidity is gone . and when any component of the market -- cash , futures or options -- loses liquidity , the price discovery system -lrb- the way 0 prices are determined -rrb- becomes flawed or is lost entirely for a time . last friday the 13th -lrb- as well as two years ago this week -rrb- the markets became unlinked . when that happened , `` seismic '' tremors of fear -- much like the shock waves created by an earthquake -- coursed through the market and increased the market 's volatility . lack of important , needed information can cause fear . fear is the father of panic . panic frequently results in irrational behavior . and in financial markets , irrational behavior is sometimes translated into catastrophe . when market tremors start , it is crucial that as much information about transaction prices and the supply-demand curve -lrb- buy and sell orders at various prices -rrb- be made available to all , not just to market makers . because of a lack of information and access , many investors -- including the very ones whose buying power could restore stability and damp volatility -- are forced to stand on the sidelines when they are most needed , because of their ignorance of important market information . to add aftershock-damping power to america 's markets , a modern , electronic trading system should be implemented that permits equal access to the trading arena -lrb- and the information that would automatically accompany such access -rrb- by investors -- particularly institutional investors . contrary to some opinions , the trading activities of specialists and other market makers do not provide liquidity to the market as a whole . what market makers provide is immediacy , a very valuable service . liquidity is not a service . it is a market attribute -- the ability to absorb selling orders without causing significant price changes in the absence of news . market makers buy what investors wish to sell ; their business is reselling these unwanted positions as quickly as possible to other investors , and at a profit . as a result , while any one customer may purchase immediacy by selling to a market maker -lrb- which is micro-liquidity for the investor -rrb- , the market as a whole remains in the same circumstances 0 it was before the transaction : the unwanted position is still an unwanted position ; only the identity of the seller has changed . in fact it can be argued that increasing capital commitments by market makers -lrb- a result of some post-1987 crash studies -rrb- also increases market volatility , since the more securities are held by market makers at any given time , the more selling pressure is overhanging the market . in an open electronic system , any investor wishing to pay for real-time access to the trading arena through a registered broker-dealer would be able to see the entire supply-demand curve -lrb- buy and sell orders at each price -rrb- entered by dealers and investors alike , and to enter and execute orders . current quotations would reflect the combined financial judgment of all market participants -- not just those of intermediaries who become extremely risk-averse during times of crisis . investors and professionals alike would compete on the level playing field 0 congress sought and called a `` national market system '' -lrb- not yet achieved -rrb- almost 15 years ago when it passed the securities reform act of 1975 . last friday 's market gyrations did not result in severe `` aftershocks . '' were we smart or just lucky ? i 'm not certain . but i am sure 0 we need to maximize our `` earthquake '' protection by making certain that our market structures let investors add their mighty shock-damping power to our nation 's markets . mr. peake is chairman of his own consulting company in englewood , n.j .