steve clark , a shearson lehman hutton inc. trader , reported for work at 5 a.m. , two and a half hours before the usual monday morning strategy meeting . at jefferies & co. , j. francis palamara did n't reach the office until 5:30 a.m. , but then he had been up most of the night at home . `` i had calls all night long from the states , '' he said . `` i was woken up every hour -- 1:30 , 2:30 , 3:30 , 4:30 . people are looking for possible opportunities to buy , but nobody wants to stick their chin out . '' for many of london 's securities traders , it was a day that started nervously in the small hours . by lunchtime , the selling was at near-panic fever . but as the day ended in a frantic wall street-inspired rally , the city breathed a sigh of relief . so it went yesterday in the trading rooms of london 's financial district . in the wake of wall street 's plunge last friday , the london market was considered especially vulnerable . and before the opening of trading here yesterday , all eyes were on early trading in tokyo for a clue as to how widespread the fallout might be . by the time 0 trading officially got under way at 9 a.m. , the news from asia was in . and it left mixed signals for london . tokyo stocks closed off a significant but less-than-alarming 1.8 % on thin volume ; hong kong stocks declined 6.5 % in orderly trading . at jefferies ' trading room on finsbury circus , a stately circle at the edge of the financial district , desktop computer screens displayed the london market 's major barometer -- the financial times-stock exchange 100 share index . red figures on the screens indicated falling stocks ; blue figures , rising stocks . right away , the reds outnumbered the blues , 80 to 20 , as the index opened at 2076.8 , off 157.1 points , or 7 % . `` i see concern , but i do n't see any panic , '' said mr. palamara , a big , good-humored new york native who runs the 15-trader office . the jefferies office , a branch of the los angeles-based firm , played it conservatively , seeking to avoid risk . `` this is not the sort of market 0 to have a big position in , '' said david smith , who heads trading in all non-u.s. stocks . `` we tend to run a very tight book . '' jefferies spent most of its energies in the morning trying to match buyers and sellers , and there were n't many buyers . `` all the takeover stocks -- scottish & newcastle , b.a.t , drg -- are getting pretty well pasted this morning , '' mr. smith said . seconds later , a 7,500-share `` sell '' order for scottish & newcastle came in . for the third time in 15 minutes , a trader next to mr. smith left the no-smoking area to have a cigarette . on the screens , only two forlorn blue figures remained , but the index had recovered a few points and was off about 140 . `` because tokyo did n't collapse , let 's pick up a little stock , '' mr. smith said . he targeted 7,500 shares of reuters and punched a button to call up on his screen other dealers ' price quotes . the vivid yellow figures showed the best price at 845 pence , -lrb- $ 13.27 -rrb- and mr. smith 's traders started putting out feelers . but the market sensed a serious buyer on a day dominated by selling , and the quotes immediately jumped to 850 pence . `` when i want to buy , they run from you -- they keep changing their prices , '' mr. smith said . `` it 's very frustrating . '' he temporarily abandoned his search for the reuters shares . by this time , it was 4:30 a.m. in new york , and mr. smith fielded a call from a new york customer wanting an opinion on the british stock market , which had been having troubles of its own even before friday 's new york market break . `` fundamentally dangerous ... , '' mr. smith said , almost in a whisper , `` ... . fundamentally weak ... fairly vulnerable still ... extremely dangerously poised ... we 're in for a lot of turbulence ... . '' he was right . by midday , the london market was in full retreat . `` it 's falling like a stone , '' said danny linger , a pit trader who was standing outside the london international financial futures exchange . only half the usual lunchtime crowd gathered at the tony corney & barrow wine bar on old broad street nearby . conversation was subdued as most patrons watched the latest market statistics on television . at 12:49 p.m. , the index hit its low , 2029.7 , off 204.2 points . `` france opened the limit down , off at least 10 % if you could calculate the index , which you could n't , '' mr. clark , the shearson trader , said early in the afternoon . `` spain is down 10 % and suspended , sweden 's down 8 % , norway 11 % . this market has been very badly damaged . '' as 2:30 p.m. -- wall street 's opening time -- neared , shearson traders and salesmen traded bets on how low the new york market would open . in the center of the trading floor , chief trader roger streeter and two colleagues scrambled for the telephones as soon as the new york market opened -- plummeting more than 60 points in the first few minutes . they saw an opportunity created by the sell-off . as wall street traders dumped american depositary receipts in jaguar plc , mr. streeter and trader sam ruiz bought them to resell in the u.k . investors here still expect ford motor co. or general motors corp. to bid for jaguar . suddenly , after about 45 minutes , the u.s. markets rallied . `` the mmi has gone better , '' shouted one trader at about 3:15 london time , as the u.s. major markets index contract suddenly indicated a turnabout . as wall street strengthened , the london trading room went wild . traders shouted as their screens posted an ever-narrowing loss on wall street . then , nine minutes later , wall street suddenly rebounded to a gain on the day . `` rally ! rally ! rally ! '' shouted shearson trader andy rosen , selling more jaguar shares . `` this is panic buying ! '' as the london market rallied , some wondered whether the weekend of worrying and jitters had been worth it . the london index closed at 2163.4 , its high for the day , off 70.5 , or about 3.3 % .