when it comes to buying and selling shares , westridge capital management inc. takes a back seat to no one . every dollar 's worth of stock in the los angeles money manager 's portfolio is traded seven or eight times a year , the firm estimates 0 . that makes it the most active trader among all the nation 's investment advisers , according to securities and exchange commission filings . but wait a second . westridge capital is an index fund -- the type of stolid long-term investor whose goal is to be nothing more than average . westridge capital 's frenetic trading reflects the changes sweeping through the previously sleepy world of indexing . indexing for the most part has involved simply buying and then holding stocks in the correct mix to mirror a stock market barometer , such as standard & poor 's 500-stock index , and match its performance . institutional investors have poured $ 210 billion into stock and bond indexing as a cheap and easy form of investment management that promises to post average market returns . these big investors have flocked to indexing because relatively few `` active '' stock pickers have been able to consistently match the returns of the s&p 500 or other bellwethers , much less beat it . and the fees 0 investors pay for indexing run a few pennies for each $ 100 of assets -- a fraction of the cost of active managers . that 's because computers do most of the work , and low trading activity keeps a lid on commission costs . but today , indexing is moving from a passive investment strategy to an increasingly active one . because index-fund managers are no longer satisfied with merely being average , they have developed `` enhanced '' indexing strategies that are intended to outperform the market as much as three percentage points . `` indexing has been the most single successful investment concept in the last decade , but the index money has been just sort of sitting there , '' says seth m. lynn , president of axe core investors inc. , an indexer based in tarrytown , n.y . `` now the interest is in what else can i do with that money . '' among the souped-up indexing strategies : indexed portfolios can be built around thousands of stocks , or just a few dozen , rather than being restricted to the s&p 500 companies . they can ignore the s&p 500 stocks altogether and focus on particular types of stocks , such as smaller companies , those paying high dividends or companies in a particular industry , state or country . with today 's computer-driven program trading techniques , index funds can trade back and forth between stock-index futures and the actual stocks making up indexes such as the s&p 500 . futures and options also make it possible to build `` synthetic '' index funds that do n't actually own a single share of stock , but can produce returns that match or exceed the broad stock market . one reason for these hybrids is that indexing 's rapid growth is slowing , particularly for those `` plain vanilla '' funds that mirror the s&p 500 . `` there is n't a boatload -lcb- of big investors -rcb- out there still waiting to get into indexing , '' says p. james kartalia , vice president of anb investment management co. , chicago , which offers both indexing and active management services . -lrb- after tripling in size in the past five years , index funds now hold about 20 % of the stock owned by pension funds . -rrb- a further problem is razor-thin profits . plain-vanilla funds have become so commonplace that fees 0 they can charge have plunged to almost nothing , and in some cases are just that . to land customers for their well-paying stock custodial business , big banks sometimes will throw in basic indexing services for free . `` it 's like getting a free toaster when you open an account , '' says axe core 's mr. lynn . as a result , indexers have been looking for ways 0 to give investors something more than the average for their money . and many have been successful , as in the case of the index fund operated by hyper-trader westridge capital . westridge capital has used enhanced indexing techniques to beat the s&p 500 's returns by 2.5 to 3 percentage points over the past four years , with the same risk level as holding the s&p 500 stocks , according to james carder , the firm 's president . strategies vary for westridge capital , which has $ 300 million under management . the firm sometimes buys s&p 500 futures when they are selling at a discount to the actual stocks , and will switch back and forth between stocks and stock-index futures to take advantages of any momentary price discrepencies . mr. carder also goes through periods when he buys stocks in conjunction with options to boost returns and protect against declines . and in some months , he buys stock-index futures and not stocks at all . `` by their nature , our trades are very short-term and are going to create high turnover , '' mr. carder adds . `` the more turnover , the better for our clients . '' big indexer bankers trust co. also uses futures in a strategy that on average has added one percentage point to its enhanced fund 's returns . j. thomas allen , president of pittsburgh-based advanced investment management inc. , agrees 0 it 's a good idea to jump between the s&p 500 stocks and futures . `` you 're buying the s&p , and you always want to hold the cheapest form of it , '' he says . but some indexers make little or no use of futures , saying that these instruments present added risks for investors . `` if the futures markets have a problem , then those products could have a problem , '' says john zumbrunn , managing director of prudential insurance co. of america 's investment index technologies inc. unit . prudential currently is seeking approval to offer a new fund offering a return equal to the s&p 500 index plus 5\/100 of a percentage point . an added feature is that the slighty improved return would be guaranteed by prudential . there are many other strategies 0 to bolster the returns of index funds . they include : limited risk funds : these guarantee protection against stock market declines while still passing along most gains . here a fund may promise to pay back , say , $ 95 of every $ 100 invested for a year , even if the market goes much lower . the fund could invest $ 87 for one year in treasury bills yielding 8 % to return the guaranteed $ 95 . that leaves $ 13 , which could be used to buy s&p 500 options that will nearly match any gain in the s&p index . manager replication funds : say 0 a big investor is interested in growth stocks . instead of hiring one of the many active managers specializing in growth stocks , indexers can design a portfolio around the same stocks ; the portfolio will be maintained by computer , reducing both fees and , in theory , risk -lrb- because of the large number of stocks -rrb- . `` we see a lot of interest in those kind of things , '' says frank salerno , a vice president of bankers trust . `` people comfortable with the passive approach are using them for other strategies . '' tilt funds : this is an index fund with a bet . instead of replicating the s&p 500 or some other index exactly , some stocks are overweighted or underweighted in the portfolio . one simple approach is to exclude s&p 500 companies considered bankruptcy candidates ; this can avoid weak sisters , but also can hurt when a company like chrysler corp. rebounds . another approach : an investor with $ 100 million might use $ 75 million to buy the s&p 500 index and spend the other $ 25 million on a favorite group of stocks . specialized funds : indexes can be constructed 0 to serve social goals , such as eliminating the stocks of companies doing business in south africa . other funds have been designed to concentrate on stocks in a geographic area in order to encourage local investment . pennsylvania state employees retirement system , for example , has about $ 130 million invested in a fund of 244 companies that are either pennsylvania-based or have 25 % of their work forces in the state .