westamerica bancorp. said 0 richard w. decker resigned as president and chief executive officer after only a year on the job because of `` differences '' with the board . the banking company could n't be reached to comment beyond a written announcement . it did n't specify the nature of the differences , saying only that they related to `` management style '' and `` strategic objectives . '' westamerica said 0 mr. decker 's posts were assumed by david payne , westamerica 's chairman , who at 34 years of age becomes one of the youngest chief executives of a sizable bank in the country . mr. decker is about 45 years old . neither mr. payne nor mr. decker could be reached to comment . westamerica has about $ 1.3 billion of assets and is the largest independent bank in northern california . it controls about 35 % of the affluent marin county market across the golden gate bridge from san francisco . mr. decker 's resignation surprised many industry officials . he was brought to the company in september 1988 after 15 years at los angeles-based first interstate bancorp . the bank had been suffering in late 1987 from a slew of bad real estate loans made in arizona . when he was hired , mr. payne lauded mr. decker 's `` extraordinary ... skills '' and his `` outstanding reputation as one of the west 's brightest bankers . '' though the bank is n't performing as well as some of its competitors in the lucrative california market , its condition has improved since mr. decker took over . for the six months ended june 30 , it earned $ 3.1 million , or 61 cents a share , compared with net income of $ 2.4 million , or 41 cents a share , a year earlier . its stock also has risen lately , at least partly because it is considered a possible takeover candidate . interstate banking is scheduled to begin in california in 1991 , and larger california banks , such as wells fargo & co. , have been paying fat premiums to buy smaller banks to control markets before any out-of-state banks enter the fray . in american stock exchange composite trading yesterday , westamerica closed at $ 22.25 a share , down 75 cents .