wall street continued to buckle under the public outcry against computer-driven program trading . kidder , peabody & co. , a unit of general electric co. , announced 0 it would stop doing stock-index arbitrage for its own account , and merrill lynch & co. pulled out of the practice altogether . at the new york stock exchange , which has been buffeted by complaints from angry individual investors and the exchange 's own listed companies , chairman john j. phelan jr. held an emergency meeting with senior partners of some of the big board 's 49 stock specialist firms . the specialists , a trader said 0 , were `` livid '' about mr. phelan 's recent remarks that sophisticated computer-driven trading strategies are `` here to stay . '' many investors blame program trading for wild swings in the stock market , including the 190-point plunge in the dow jones industrial average on oct. 13 . a specialist is an exchange member designated to maintain a fair and orderly market in a specified stock . mr. phelan 's meeting with the floor brokers comes as he prepares to explain the exchange 's position on program trading to key congressional regulators in a closed session tomorrow , according to exchange officials . a big board spokesman would only say , `` we 're working the problem and looking at the issue and meeting with a broad number of customers and constituents to get their views and ideas on the issue . '' the program-trading outcry was taken to a new level when giant contel corp. said 0 it and 20 or more of the big board 's listed companies are forming an unprecedented alliance to complain about the exchange 's role in program trading . the decision by merrill , the nation 's largest securities firm , represents the biggest retreat yet from program trading . merrill has been the fourth-biggest stock-index arbitrage trader on the big board this year , executing an average of 18.1 million shares a month in such trades , or about one million shares a day . merrill 's move is one of the most sweeping program-trading pullbacks of recent days , because the big securities firm will no longer execute stock-index arbitrage trades for customers . most wall street firms , in pulling back , have merely stopped such trading for their own accounts . merrill has been one of the main firms executing index arbitrage for customers . merrill also said 0 it is lobbying for significant regulatory controls on program trading , including tough margin -- or down-payment -- requirements and limits on price moves for program-driven financial futures . merrill , in a statement by chairman william a. schreyer and president daniel p. tully , said 0 index arbitrage `` has been clearly identified in the investing public 's mind as a contributing factor to excess market volatility , '' so merrill wo n't execute such trades until `` effective controls '' are in place . in stock-index arbitrage , traders buy and sell large amounts of stocks with offsetting trades in stock-index futures and options . the idea is to lock in profits from short-term swings in volatile markets . last thursday , painewebber group inc. also said 0 it would cease index arbitrage altogether , but the firm was n't as big an index arbitrager as merrill is . other large firms , including bear , stearns & co. and morgan stanley & co. , last week announced a pullback from index arbitrage , but only for the firms ' own accounts . kidder made an abrupt about-face on program trading yesterday , after a special meeting between the firm 's president and chief executive officer , michael carpenter , and its senior managers . just a week ago , mr. carpenter staunchly defended index arbitrage at kidder , the most active index-arbitrage trading firm on the stock exchange this year . index arbitrage , mr. carpenter said 0 last week , does n't have a `` negative impact on the market as a whole '' and kidder 's customers were `` sophisticated '' enough to know that . but yesterday , mr. carpenter said 0 big institutional investors , which he would n't identify , `` told us 0 they would n't do business with firms '' that continued to do index arbitrage for their own accounts . `` we were following the trend of our competitors who were under pressure from institutions , '' he said . kidder so far this year has executed a monthly average of 37.8 million shares in index-arbitrage trading , and is second only to morgan stanley in overall program trading , which includes index arbitrage . most of kidder 's program trading is for its own account , according to the new york stock exchange . kidder denied that ge 's chairman and chief executive , john f. welch , had anything 0 to do with kidder 's decision . but at least one chief executive said 0 he called mr. welch to complain about kidder 's aggressive use of program trading , and other market sources said 0 they understood that mr. welch received many phone calls complaining about kidder 's reliance on index arbitrage as a major business . kidder has generally been sensitive to suggestions that ge makes decisions for its kidder unit . `` our decision had nothing 0 to do with any pressure 0 mr. welch received , '' mr. carpenter said . `` this was a kidder peabody stand-alone decision . '' a spokeswoman for ge in fairfield , conn. , said , `` absolutely no one spoke to jack welch on this subject '' and added , `` anyone who claims 0 they talked to jack welch is n't telling the truth . '' supporters of index arbitrage have n't been publicly sticking up for the trading strategy , as some did during the post-crash outcry of 1987 . but merrill lynch , in its statement about pulling out of index arbitrage , suggested that the current debate has missed the mark . merrill said 0 it continues to believe that `` the causes of excess market volatility are far more complex than any particular computer trading strategy . indeed , there are legitimate hedging strategies used by managers of large portfolios such as pension funds that involve program trading as a means of protecting the assets of their pension beneficiaries . '' merrill 's index arbitragers will continue to do other kinds of computer-assisted program trading , so there probably wo n't be any layoffs at the firm , people familiar with merrill 's program operation said 0 . meanwhile , bear stearns chairman and chief executive alan c. greenberg said 0 his firm will continue stock-index arbitrage for its clients . at the firm 's annual meeting last night , he told shareholders that index arbitrage wo n't go away , despite the public outcry . `` if they think 0 they are going to stop index arbitrage by causing a few wall street firms to quit , they are crazy , '' mr. greenberg said . `` it 's not going to stop it at all . '' mr. greenberg , noting that stock-index arbitrage rises and ebbs with stock market 's volatility , said that for the first four months of the firm 's fiscal year beginning in july , stock-index arbitrage had been a `` break-even '' proposition for bear stearns . in response to a shareholder 's suggestion , mr. greenberg agreed that european firms will simply pick up the index-arbitrage business left behind by u.s. institutions . pressure from big institutional investors has been the major catalyst for wall street 's program-trading pullback . and there was speculation yesterday that fidelity investments and other large mutual-fund companies might soon follow the lead of kemper corp. and other institutions in cutting off trading business to securities firms that do program trading . a fidelity spokesman in boston denied the speculation , saying 0 the program-trading issue was more of a regulatory problem . but a much smaller mutual fund company , the usaa investment management co. unit of usaa , san antonio , texas , said 0 it informed nine national brokerage firms 0 it will cease business with them unless they stop index-arbitrage trading . usaa , with 400,000 mutual fund accounts , manages more than $ 10 billion , $ 2 billion of which is in the stock market . michael j.c. roth , usaa executive vice president , called program trading `` mindless . '' he said 0 there is `` no valid investment reason '' 0 for stock-index futures to exist . a program-bashing move is clearly on . charles wohlstetter , chairman of contel , who is helping organize the alliance of big board-listed firms , said 0 he had no time 0 to work yesterday because he received so many phone calls , faxes and letters supporting his view that the big board has been turned into a `` gambling casino '' by program traders . `` we are reaching the moment of truth '' on wall street , said 0 rep. edward j. markey -lrb- d. , mass. -rrb- , chairman of the house subcommittee on telecommunications and finance . `` -lcb- wall street -rcb- is beginning to realize -- as shakespeare said -- 0 the trouble is not in our stars , but in ourselves . '' craig torres and anne newman contributed to this article .