investors poured $ 2.8 billion more into money-market mutual funds in the latest week despite further declines in yields . assets of the 400 taxable funds tracked by ibc\/donoghue 's money fund report jumped to $ 351.2 billion in the week ended tuesday , the holliston , mass.-based newsletter said 0 . assets soared $ 4.5 billion in the previous week . meanwhile , the average yield on taxable funds dropped nearly a tenth of a percentage point , the largest drop since midsummer . the average seven-day compound yield , which assumes that dividends are reinvested and that current rates continue for a year , fell to 8.47 % , its lowest since late last year , from 8.55 % the week before , according to donoghue 's . `` lower yields are just reflecting lower short-term interest rates , '' said brenda malizia negus , editor of money fund report . money funds invest in such things as short-term treasury securities , commercial paper and certificates of deposit , all of which have been posting lower interest rates since last spring . individual investors can still get better yields on money funds than on many other short-term instruments . the yield on six-month treasury bills sold at monday 's auction , for example , was just 7.77 % . the average yield on six-month cds of $ 50,000 or less at major banks was 7.96 % in the week ended tuesday , according to banxquote money markets , a new york information service . one way that money fund managers boost yields in a declining rate environment is by extending the maturities of their investments , so they can earn the current higher rates for a longer period . the average maturity of the taxable funds that donoghue 's follows increased by two days in the latest week to 40 days , its longest since august . `` they 're anticipating further declines in rates and they 're going to get them , slowly , '' said walter frank , chief economist for the donoghue organization , publisher of money fund report . average maturity was as short as 29 days at the start of this year , when short-term interest rates were moving steadily upward . the average seven-day compound yield of the funds reached 9.62 % in late april . the highest-yielding funds are still above 9 % . the top-performing fund in the latest week was dreyfus worldwide dollar , with a seven-day compound yield of 9.45 % . the fund invests heavily in dollar-denominated money-market securities overseas . it is currently waiving management fees , which contributes to the higher yield . the average seven-day simple yield of the 400 funds fell to 8.14 % from 8.21 % , donoghue 's reported 0 . the average 30-day simple yield slid to 8.22 % from 8.26 % , and the average 30-day compound yield fell to 8.56 % from 8.60 % .