johnson & johnson reported a 10 % rise in third-quarter net income on a 12 % sales increase - results that were driven particularly by new products including pharmaceuticals and the company 's professional operations . net for the new brunswick , n.j. , maker of health-care products climbed to $ 265 million , or 80 cents a share , from $ 240 million , or 71 cents a share , in the year-earlier period . sales rose to $ 2.45 billion from $ 2.2 billion . the year-ago per-share earnings are adjusted to reflect a 2-for-1 stock split last may . in a statement , ralph s. larsen , chairman and chief executive officer , said 0 the company was pleased with its third-quarter sales performance , `` especially in light of the extremely competitive environment in domestic consumer markets and the negative impact of unfavorable exchange rates this quarter . '' david j. lothson , an industry analyst for painewebber group inc. , said 0 johnson & johnson 's results slightly exceeded his expectations for the third quarter . in new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday , johnson & johnson shares fell 37.5 cents to $ 54.625 . mr. larsen noted `` substantial sales growth '' for the recently introduced acuvue disposable contact lens and hismanal , a once-a-day antihistamine . eprex , used by dialysis patients who are anemic , and prepulsid , a gastro-intestinal drug , did well overseas , he said 0 . despite health-care cost controls and programs 0 to hold down inventory , the professional division , which makes products including sutures and surgical stapling equipment , `` achieved solid growth , '' johnson & johnson said 0 . but domestic consumer sales slipped 1.2 % for the quarter , to $ 490 million from $ 496 million . the company cited softness in the retail health and beauty aids category , `` as well as the intense competition in the company 's sanitary protection product line . '' overseas sales were stronger , principally because of a rebound in brazil , where economic turmoil had hurt year-earlier results , johnson & johnson said 0 . mr. lothson of painewebber said 0 the company 's sales pace has been picking up largely because the effect of unfavorable exchange rates has been easing -- a pattern continuing this quarter . he cautioned , however , that a `` tough tax-rate comparison '' may slow the company 's earnings growth for the current quarter . for last year 's fourth quarter , the company 's tax rate was less than 20 % , he said 0 . while the third period contained no major surprises , mr. lothson said 0 , the results show how sensitive the multinationals can be to developments in a single country such as brazil . he also questioned whether recent gains in that country can be sustained . the following issues were recently filed with the securities and exchange commission : bergen brunswig corp. , proposed offering of liquid yield option notes , via merrill lynch capital markets . columbia gas system inc. , shelf offering of up to $ 200 million of debentures . laserscope , initial offering of 1,656,870 common shares , of which 1,455,000 shares are to be sold by the company and 201,870 by holders , via alex . brown & sons inc. and volpe , covington & welty . televideo systems inc. , proposed offering of 1,853,735 common shares , 0 to be sold by holders . western gas system inc. , initial offering of 3,250,000 common shares , of which 3,040,000 shares will be sold by the company and 210,000 by a holder , via prudential-bache capital funding , smith barney , harris upham & co. and hanifen , imhoff inc .