in what could prove a major addition to the philippines ' foreign-investment portfolio , a taiwanese company signed a $ 180 million construction contract to build the centerpiece of a planned petrochemical complex . taiwan 's usi far east corp. , a petrochemical company , initialed the agreement with an unidentified japanese contractor to build a naphtha cracker , according to alson lee , who heads the philippine company set up to build and operate the complex . mr. lee , president of luzon petrochemical corp. , said 0 the contract was signed wednesday in tokyo with usi far east officials . contract details , however , have n't been made public . the complex is to be located in batangas , about 70 miles south of manila . usi far east will hold a 60 % stake in luzon petrochemical , according to papers signed with the philippine government 's board of investments . the proposed petrochemical plant would use naphtha to manufacture the petrochemicals propylene and ethylene and their resin derivatives , polypropylene and polyethylene . these are the raw materials used in making plastics . the contract signing represented a major step in the long-planned petrochemical project . at an estimated $ 360 million , the project would represent the single largest foreign investment in the philippines since president corazon aquino took office in february 1986 . it also is considered critical to the country 's efforts to both attract other investment from taiwan and raise heavy industry capabilities . the project has been in and out of the pipeline for more than a decade . however , workers ca n't break ground until legal maneuvers to block the complex are resolved , moves which caused the signing to remain questionable up to the last moment . as previously reported , a member of the philippines ' house of representatives has sued to stop the plant . the legislator , enrique garcia , had actively backed the plant , but at the original site in his constituency northwest of manila . the country 's supreme court dismissed the suit , but mr. garcia late last month filed for a reconsideration . in addition , president aquino has yet to sign into law a bill removing a stiff 48 % tax on naphtha , the principal raw material 0 to be used in the cracker . however , at a news conference thursday , mrs. aquino backed the project and said 0 her government was attempting to soothe the feelings of residents at the original site , adjacent to the government 's major petroleum refinery in bataan province . `` we have tried our best to tell the people in bataan that maybe this time it will not go to them , but certainly we will do our best to encourage other investors to go to their province , '' mrs. aquino told manila-based foreign correspondents . the project appeared to be on the rocks earlier this month when the other major partner in the project , china general plastics corp. , backed out . china general plastics , another taiwanese petrochemical manufacturer , was to have a 40 % stake in luzon petrochemical . however , mr. lee said that usi far east is confident 0 other investors will take up the slack . he said 0 usi far east has applied to both the asian development bank and the world bank 's international finance corp. for financing that could include equity stakes .