nothing stirred the soul of ronald reagan and his disciples as much as the crusade to aid nicaragua 's contra rebels , or the dream of building a space-based defense shield to knock out soviet nuclear missiles . yet under mr. reagan 's preferred successor , president bush , those two cherished national-security causes are withering on the vine . and , surprisingly , little more than a whimper of protest is being heard , even though reaganauts once breathed fire supporting the contras and the strategic defense initiative . `` the programs have arthritis , '' says rep. henry hyde , a conservative republican from illinois . yet , he asserts , `` you look around ... and you say , ` who are the leaders ? who is going to carry the water ? ' '' it is n't surprising that president bush has n't led a crusade to pump up the contras or sdi . though he nominally supports both programs , mr. bush has n't been a passionate champion of either cause , as mr. reagan was . what 's surprising is that there is n't more of a conservative outcry as the bush administration lets the programs slip down the national-priority list . a combination of factors -- a weariness among some conservatives , a decline in the perception of a soviet threat and a preoccupation with other issues -- seem to explain the strange tranquility . above all , though , conservative republicans who have championed both the contras and sdi are reluctant to attack a republican president for failing to do more -- though that reluctance may be receding . `` we want to complain , we want to say something about it , and we 're going to as it gets worse , '' says rep. dan burton , an indiana republican who has been a staunch contra backer . `` but it 's like kicking your father in the pants . you hate to do it because he 's your father . '' mr. burton says 0 conservatives ' unhappiness with mr. bush 's cautious handling of the recent unsuccessful coup in panama will make them more willing to speak out . of course , neither president bush nor the congress has actually abandoned the contras or sdi . mr. bush has struck a deal with congressional leaders to provide nonlethal aid to the contras until nicaragua holds national elections next february . but the administration has dropped any effort to win military aid for the rebels . and the administration 's deal with congress gives several congressional committees the right to cut off even humanitarian aid next month , though the committees are likely to let aid continue until february . most analysts think 0 there 's little prospect 0 the contras can be a significant fighting force without u.s. arms , and after the february election their future in any form will be murky at best . instead of focusing on the contras , mr. bush has switched to urging members of congress -- most recently in a white house meeting yesterday -- to approve financing for the election campaign of political opponents of nicaragua 's sandinista government . the administration continues to support sdi , or star wars , and it recently lobbied to persuade the senate to restore some of the funds 0 it planned to cut from the program . and just last week , defense secretary dick cheney gave a strong speech listing `` compelling reasons '' 0 to push ahead with sdi and saying 0 he 'd urge president bush to veto a defense bill with `` inadequate '' funding for the program . but the strong pitch by mr. cheney may be too little too late 0 to prevent damage to sdi . the house has already voted for a deep cut in funding , and in the end the program 's backers will be hard pressed to head off some reduction in spending next year . and while the defense secretary is speaking out , president bush himself has n't launched any high-visibility campaign to drum up support , as president reagan did . the administration also acknowledges that it is n't pursuing mr. reagan 's original vision of an `` impenetrable shield '' protecting the whole u.s. , but rather a more modest version . more ominous to sdi supporters , the bush administration appears to have tacitly accepted a new arms-control proposal from the soviet union that spells long-term trouble for star wars . the soviets have agreed to complete a treaty cutting strategic weapons without including restrictions on space-based defenses . but the soviets also are insisting that they will reserve the right to withdraw from the completed strategic-arms treaty later on if the u.s. does sdi testing or deployment that the soviets think 0 violates the existing anti-ballistic-missile treaty . it will be hard down the road to persuade congress to approve money for sdi plans if lawmakers fear 0 those plans could scuttle a completed treaty . as a result , frank gaffney , a former reagan pentagon aide who now heads the center for security policy , charges that the administration 's `` professions of continued commitment to development and deployment of the sdi program strain credulity . '' still , proponents may be shying away from more drumbeating because they sense 0 political tides have turned against arming the nicaraguan rebels or boosting spending on sdi -- particularly when the public perceives 0 the soviet threat is declining under mikhail gorbachev . in fact , because communism seems to be beating a global retreat , some conservatives may simply be so pleased that their anti-communist philosophy is prevailing that they do n't have the fire at the moment to push controversial programs . `` the short of it is that the most hard-bitten among us can not get into too sour a mood with communism collapsing , '' says mitchell daniels , a former reagan white house aide who now is president of the hudson institute . some activists are toiling to raise the profile of the two causes . but they say 0 they ca n't make much headway because of a lack of willing leaders in a position 0 to turn the tide . one longtime champion of these programs in congress , republican whip newt gingrich of georgia , is distracted by questions about his ethics , conservatives note 0 . other conservative champions , like wyoming republican sen. malcolm wallop , a longtime sdi advocate , do n't have the clout with the bush white house that they enjoyed with president reagan . above all , though , proponents say 0 neither the contra nor the sdi cause can be pushed much further without more presidential support . `` for there to be wind in the sails of any program , the chief executive has to be blowing in the sails , '' says rep. burton . all this causes rep. hyde to muse about an alternate way 0 to drum up more enthusiasm . `` what i 'd like to see , if he is up to it , is for reagan to take to the hustings to regenerate enthusiasm for sdi , '' the congressman says .