for cheap air fares , spend christmas aloft it is n't true that a 90-year old clergyman on a mission of mercy to a disaster area on christmas day can fly free . but his circumstances are among the few that can qualify for the handful of really cheap airline tickets remaining in america . in recent years , carriers have become much more picky about who can fly on the cheap . but there still are a few ways 0 today 's traveler can qualify under the airline 's many restrictions . one of the best deals , though , may mean skipping christmas dinner with the relatives . this week , many carriers are announcing cut-rate fares designed to get people to fly on some of the most hallowed -- and slowest -- days of the year , including christmas . in recent years , the airlines had waited until the last moment to court christmas season vacationers with bargain fares . that approach flopped : last christmas day , a usair group inc. dc-9 jetliner flew about seven passengers from chicago to pittsburgh . so this year , the airlines are getting a jump on holiday discounts . they are cutting ticket prices by as much as 70 % from normal levels for travel to most u.s. locations on dec. 24 , 25 , 29 , 30 and 31 , and jan. 4 , 5 and 6 . the promotions -- dubbed everything from 't- is the season 0 to be jolly to kringle fares -- put round-trip fares at $ 98 , $ 148 and $ 198 . `` they 're trying to keep planes flying on days 0 they 'd normally park them , '' says roger bard , president of mr. mitchell travel service in burnsville , n.c . expect , of course , sky-high prices on other dates near the holidays when the airlines know 0 vacationers are eager to travel . consider adopting your spouse 's name if continental airlines has its way , couples like marlo thomas and phil donahue may find it a hassle to qualify for some new discounts . continental , a texas air corp. unit , recently unveiled a marketing program offering free companion tickets to business-class and first-class passengers on international flights . the continental catch : only immediate family members are allowed , and they must have the same last name as the buyer of the ticket or legal proof 0 they 're related . that irritates many women who have n't taken their husbands ' last name . `` what a bunch of nonsense , '' says jessica crosby , president of the new york chapter of the national association of women business owners . `` this sets things way back . '' continental 's logic : it does n't want business companions abusing the promotion by falsely claiming to be related . `` we accommodate their choice of names by allowing them to demonstrate '' family affiliation with legal documents , says 0 jim o'donnell , a senior vice president . but gay rights advocates are angry , too . the lambda legal defense and education fund of new york city has received complaints from homosexual couples whom the airline does n't recognize as family . `` it 's certainly discrimination , '' says attorney evan wolfson , whose group forced trans world airlines this year to change a rule that allowed travelers to transfer frequent flier awards only to family members . take your vacation in a hurricane area when hurricane hugo careened through the caribbean and the atlantic coast states , it downed electric and telephone lines , shot coconuts through cottage rooftops , shattered windows and uprooted thousands of lives . it also lowered some air fares . since the hurricane , midway airlines inc. and american airlines , a unit of amr corp. , trimmed their one-way fares to the virgin islands to $ 109 from prices that were at times double that before the storm . the fares are code-named hugo , compassion and virgin islands aid . -lrb- airlines are n't lowering fares to northern california following this week 's earthquake , but reservation agents can waive advance-purchase restrictions on discount fares for emergency trips . -rrb- some hotels in the hurricane-stricken caribbean promise money-back guarantees . in myrtle beach , s.c. , the damaged yachtsman resort offers daily rates as low as $ 35 , or as much as 22 % below regular prices . says michele hoffman , a clerk in the resort 's front office : `` we do n't have the outdoor pool , the pool table , ping pong table , snack bar or vcr , but we still have the indoor pool and jacuzzi . '' just wait until you 're a bit older senior citizens have long received cheap air fares . this year , the older someone is the bigger the discount . a senior citizen between 62 and 70 saves 70 % off regular coach fare . travelers up to age 99 get a percentage discount matching their age . and centenarians fly free in first class . next month , northwest airlines says , a 108-year-old lansing , mich. , woman is taking it up on the offer to fly with her 72-year-old son to tampa , fla . last year when northwest first offered the promotion , only six centenarians flew free . if all else fails ... . the nation's carriers also provide discounts to red cross workers , retired military personnel and medical students . there 's even a special fare for clergy that does n't require the usual stay over saturday night . that way , they can be home in time for work sunday .