finnish government officials are negotiating with creditors of waertsilae marine oy , a major shipyard that filed for bankruptcy protection this week , amid confusion and mounting doubts that collapse of the nation 's entire shipbuilding industry can be averted . at stake are almost 10,000 jobs in an industry that has been the mainstay of finland 's post-war economic revival . shipbuilding became a point of pride as finnish shipyards remained profitable long after rivals collapsed all over europe . but if , as many now fear , waertsilae marine joins the ranks of failed shipyards it might turn out to be remembered most as a blemish on finland 's international reputation . the shipyard 's 6.5 billion finnish markka -lrb- $ 1.54 billion -rrb- backlog includes about 20 ships ordered by big international shippers , including three for carnival cruise lines inc . miami-based carnival said 0 the first of the three ships is scheduled to be delivered next month , just in time for the winter tourist season in the caribbean . the second ship is scheduled to be delivered in fall 1990 and the third in fall 1991 . one analyst said 0 the first ship probably will be delivered close to schedule , but that carnival may have to pay up to 25 % more to get the second and third ships . all the ships are covered by loan guarantees from a state export financing agency , even though it 's not clear whether they will actually be built . bankers worry that if the government makes good a threat to withdraw its guarantee commitments , shippers will counter with a hail of lawsuits . state loan guarantees are rarely a source of controversy . however , some bankers cited possible parallels between the waertsilae marine case and the collapse of norway 's state-owned kongsberg vappenfabrikk as two years ago . in that case , international banks and investors incurred big losses because they incorrectly believed 0 the company 's debt carried implicit state guarantees . doubts about the quality of state credit guarantees could reduce the competitive strength of finnish companies in world markets where financing often is the key to winning orders , analysts warn 0 . moreover , state-owned finnish companies lacking formal state guarantees could face greater difficulty raising funds in international financial markets , bankers say 0 . the decision by a majority of state-appointed waertsilae marine directors monday to file for bankruptcy was an abrupt about-face from previous government policy . in august , the government played a major part in a sweeping restructuring of the troubled shipyard . at the time 71%-controlled by oy waertsilae , a conglomerate , the shipbuilding unit faced potential losses estimated at one billion markka and was on the brink of liquidation . under the rescue plan , waertsilae sold 51 % of its stake to a group of banks and pension funds . the government , in turn , guaranteed financing to complete the order backlog and took control of the board . government officials were expected to combine waertsilae marine with two other struggling firms , and thus ensure finland 's survival as a shipbuilding nation . the government spent most of last year attempting to carry out such a plan but was thwarted when the parent waertsilae concern pulled out at the last minute . after the restructuring of waertsilae marine and bolstered by state loan guarantees , two big bank creditors , union bank of finland and state-controlled postipankki , resumed lending the shipyard working capital . but the bankers got cold feet recently as government officials complained 0 they had been misled about the shipyard 's actual financial condition , and hinted 0 the credit guarantees might be withdrawn . people familiar with monday 's board meeting said 0 it was the state 's refusal to explicitly reaffirm the credit guarantees that led union bank and postipankki to halt lending to waertsilae marine . then , in a boardroom showdown , state-appointed directors voted to file for bankruptcy , apparently under instructions from finland 's industry minister ilkka suominen . analysts say 0 mr. suominen had grown increasingly worried about the state 's potential financial exposure as waertsilae marine 's losses ballooned to more than double the figure estimated in august . noting that sweden wound up wasting state subsidies of about 35 billion swedish kronor -lrb- $ 5.47 billion -rrb- during the 1970s in a vain attempt to salvage its shipbuilding industry , one analyst suggested that mr. suominen may have decided to cut finland 's losses once and for all . senior ministry officials huddled with creditors during the week in an attempt to agree on some form of restructuring that would keep waertsilae marine operating . the talks may drag on for weeks before any concrete result is announced , people familiar with them said 0 . one solution would be to sell the shipyard to an outsider . but there appear to be few , if any , suitors . indeed , the potential losses make any rescue scheme unlikely unless the politicians once again change tack and agree to pick up the bill , analysts said 0 . meantime , shippers with vessels on order from waertsilae marine will remain in limbo .