interprovincial pipe line co. said 0 it will delay a proposed two-step , 830 million canadian-dollar -lrb- us$ 705.6 million -rrb- expansion of its system because canada 's output of crude oil is shrinking . interprovincial , canada 's biggest oil pipeline operator and a major transporter of crude to the u.s. , said 0 revised industry forecasts indicate that canadian oil output will total about 1.64 million barrels a day by 1991 , 8 % lower than a previous estimate . canadian crude production averaged about 1.69 million barrels a day during 1989 's first half , about 1 % below the 1988 level . `` the capability of existing fields to deliver oil is dropping , '' and oil exploration activity is also down dramatically , as many producers shift their emphasis to natural gas , said 0 ronald watkins , vice president for government and industry relations with interprovincial 's parent , interhome energy inc . mr. watkins said 0 volume on interprovincial 's system is down about 2 % since january and is expected to fall further , making expansion unnecessary until perhaps the mid-1990s . `` there has been a swing of the pendulum back to the gas side , '' he said . many of canada 's oil and gas producers say 0 the outlook for natural gas is better than it is for oil , and have shifted their exploration and development budgets accordingly . the number of active drilling rigs in canada is down 30 % from a year ago , and the number of completed oil wells is `` down more than that , due to the increasing focus on gas exploration , '' said robert feick , manager of crude oil with calgary 's independent petroleum association of canada , an industry group . mr. watkins said 0 the main reason for the production decline is shrinking output of light crude from mature , conventional fields in western canada . interprovincial transports about 75 % of all crude produced in western canada , and almost 60 % of interprovincial 's total volume consists of light crude . nearly all of the crude oil that canada exports to the u.s. is transported on interprovincial 's system , whose main line runs from edmonton to major u.s. and canadian cities in the great lakes region , including chicago , buffalo , toronto and montreal . canada 's current oil exports to the u.s. total about 600,000 barrels a day , or about 9.1 % of net u.s. crude imports , said 0 john lichtblau , president of the new york-based petroleum industry research foundation . that ranks canada as the fourth-largest source of imported crude , behind saudi arabia , nigeria and mexico . mr. lichtblau said 0 canada 's declining crude output , combined with the fast-shrinking output of u.s. crude , will help intensify u.s. reliance on oil from overseas , particularly the middle east . `` it 's very much a growing concern . but when something is inevitable , you learn to live with it , '' he said . mr. lichtblau stressed that the delay of interprovincial 's proposed expansion wo n't by itself increase u.s. dependence on offshore crude , however , since canadian imports are limited in any case by canada 's falling output . under terms of its proposed two-step expansion , which would have required regulatory approval , interprovincial intended to add 200,000 barrels a day of additional capacity to its system , beginning with a modest expansion by 1991 . the system currently has a capacity of 1.55 million barrels a day .