transcanada pipelines ltd. said 0 it plans to shift its headquarters to calgary , alberta , from toronto next year to cut costs and be closer to the upstream natural-gas industry . gerald maier , president and chief executive officer of the natural-gas pipeline and marketing concern , said 0 the company 's future growth is `` increasingly linked '' to decisions made by calgary-based gas producers . `` since deregulation of the market in 1985 , producers have become much more intensely involved in both transportation and marketing , '' mr. maier said . `` it 's a matter of being close to those suppliers ; many of those companies do n't know us as well as they should . '' transcanada transports all gas that moves eastward from alberta . that includes all the gas consumed in ontario and quebec , along with the bulk of canadian gas exports to the walter litvinchuk , vice president of pan-alberta gas ltd. , a calgary-based gas marketing concern , said 0 the industry will welcome the move . `` having more than a token presence here should enhance communications and business relationships , '' mr. litvinchuk said . `` since the cost of transporting gas is so important to producers ' ability to sell it , it helps to have input and access to transportation companies . '' the move , which could cost transcanada as much as 50 million canadian dollars -lrb- us$ 42.5 million -rrb- in relocation and severance payments , should be complete by next summer , mr. maier said . all 700 toronto-based employees will be offered positions in calgary , the company said 0 . the company will save between c$ 4 million and c$ 6 million annually in office expenses and other administrative costs by moving to calgary , mr. maier added 0 . part of both the costs and the savings could be passed on to shippers on the transcanada pipeline through tolls , which are based on the value of the pipeline system and the cost of operating it . transcanada is 49.1 % owned by montreal-based holding company bce inc .