japanese companies have long been accused of sacrificing profit to boost sales . but fujitsu ltd. has taken that practice to a new extreme . japan 's biggest computer maker last week undercut seven competitors to win a contract to design a mapping system for the city of hiroshima 's waterworks . its bid : one yen , or less than a u.s. penny . the bid created such a furor that fujitsu said 0 it is now offering to withdraw from the project . `` from a common-sense viewpoint , it was not socially acceptable , '' a fujitsu spokeswoman said yesterday . hiroshima city officials could n't be reached to find out whether they would drop fujitsu 's bid . fujitsu said 0 it issued the low bid because it wanted a foot in the door of a potentially lucrative market . `` we desperately wanted the contract because we want experience in the field , '' the fujitsu spokeswoman said 0 . `` we expect a big market in the future , so in the long term it will be profitable . it 's a kind of an investment . '' hiroshima 's waterworks bureau said 0 the municipal government had budgeted about 11 million yen -lrb- $ 77,500 -rrb- for the project . `` i was flabbergasted , '' tatsuhara yamane , head of the bureau , was quoted by kyodo news service as saying . `` i understand the firm 's enthusiasm in getting the deal , but such a large company would have been better off showing a little more discretion . '' indeed , fujitsu officials admitted 0 they may have been a little overzealous . the fujitsu spokeswoman said 0 headquarter officials did n't approve the bid in advance and will take measures so this kind of thing does n't happen in the future . `` it 's contrary to common sense , '' she added . specifically , fujitsu won the right to design the specifications for a computerized system that will show water lines throughout the city . the system could be used in a fire or earthquake to locate problems , among other things . a waterworks official said 0 fujitsu will have to design the system so it would be compatible with other makers ' equipment . but industry officials expressed concern that the initial project might give fujitsu an edge in winning more lucrative contracts later . fujitsu said 0 it hopes 0 the hiroshima contract will help it secure pacts with other municipalities . japanese local governments are expected to invest heavily in computer systems over the next few years , and many companies expect that field to provide substantial revenue . `` in the near future , it will be a big market , not just for waterworks , but for all mapping systems , '' the fujitsu spokeswoman said . `` we can expect a hundreds-of-billions-of-yen market . '' no foreign companies bid on the hiroshima project , according to the bureau . but the japanese practice of deep discounting often is cited by americans as a classic barrier to entry in japan 's market . earlier this year , the u.s. complained that japan 's supercomputer makers were effectively closing out foreign competitors by slashing prices as much as 90 % for universities . fujitsu was n't the only company willing to sacrifice profit on the project . three competitors bid between 300,000 yen and 500,000 yen , according to the hiroshima government office . other bids ranged from about 10 million yen to 29 million yen .