commodore international ltd. said 0 it will report a loss for the first quarter ended sept. 30 because sales of personal computers for the home market remained weak in some major countries . that will mark the second consecutive quarterly loss for commodore and will raise additional questions about whether it can sustain the turnaround 0 it had seemed to be engineering . commodore , west chester , pa. , had said in august that it was consolidating manufacturing to cut costs and expected to be profitable in the fiscal first quarter . commodore said that its announcement is based on preliminary information and that the situation could look different by the time 0 final results are announced early next month . in fact , commodore 's fiscal fourth-quarter loss was $ 2 million narrower than commodore had expected a few weeks after the quarter closed . still , even results approaching break-even would mark a sharp weakening compared with fiscal 1989 first-quarter earnings of $ 9.6 million , or 30 cents a share , on sales of $ 200.2 million . reflecting concerns about commodore 's outlook , its stock has plunged more than 50 % since may , closing yesterday unchanged at $ 8.875 a share in composite trading on the new york stock exchange . the price can be expected to erode further , because the loss estimate came after the market closed . commodore has seemed to be setting the stage recently for progress in the u.s. , where its personal-computer sales have been so dismal for years that commodore is close to dropping off research firms ' market-share charts . commodore has assembled an experienced management team , it has persuaded many more dealers to carry its products and it has unleashed a slick advertising campaign . but those represent long-term strategies that probably wo n't succeed quickly , even if they turn out to be the right ones . in the meantime , the strategies will increase expenses . commodore had been counting on its consumer business to stay sufficiently healthy to support its efforts in other areas -- mainly in getting schools and businesses to use its amiga , which has slick graphics yet has been slow to catch on because it is n't compatible with apple computer inc. or international business machines corp. hardware . but sales to consumers have become difficult during the past several months , even in west germany , which has been by far commodore 's strongest market . the commodore 64 and 128 , mainly used for children 's educational software and games , had surprised market researchers by continuing to produce strong sales even though other low-profit personal computers now operate several times as fast and have much more memory . commodore has said 0 it expects sales to rebound , but market researchers have said that sales of the low-end products may finally be trailing off .