for all of this year 's explosive run-up in stock prices , renaissance investment management inc. 's computer sat on the sidelines . now it 's on the fence . renaissance , a cincinnati-based money manager , began buying stocks again this week with half of the $ 1.8 billion that it oversees for clients , according to people familiar with the firm 's revised strategy . it was the first time since january that renaissance has thought 0 stocks are worth owning . renaissance declined to confirm the move , but its stock purchases were thought to have begun tuesday , timed to coincide with the maturity this week of treasury bills owned by the firm . the other half of its portfolio is expected to remain invested in treasury bills for the time being . wall street executives said 0 they believed that renaissance 's $ 900 million buy program was carried out by painewebber inc . as reported , painewebber bought shares tuesday as part of a customer strategy shift , although the broker 's client was said then to have been japanese . yesterday , painewebber declined comment . when it owns stocks , renaissance 's portfolio typically is composed of about 60 large-capitalization issues ; to make buy or sell moves , the firm solicits wall street brokerage houses a day or so in advance , looking for the best package price to carry out the trades . the broker winning the business does n't charge commissions , but instead profits by buying or selling for less than the overall package price . that puts the broker at risk if it 's trying to buy stock in a rising market . in tuesday 's gyrating session , the dow jones industrial average fell by 80 points early in the day , but finished with less than a four-point loss . renaissance 's last portfolio shift , carried out by goldman , sachs & co. , was a highly publicized decision last january to sell its entire stock portfolio and buy treasury bills . the sell signal , which sent a bearish chill through the stock market , came when renaissance 's computer found that stocks were overpriced compared with bonds and treasury bills . at the time , the dow jones industrial average stood at about 2200 . the dow average now stands more than 20 % higher , while renaissance 's portfolio of treasurys produced a return of about 6 % through the first three quarters of the year . the computer 's miscalculation has been painful for renaissance . almost any money manager holding stocks has turned in better results , while renaissance has played it safe with treasury bills . so why does renaissance 's computer like stocks with the dow at 2653.28 , where it closed yesterday , when it did n't with the dow at 2200 ? `` with the decline in stock prices and continued low or stable interest rates , stocks are representing a better value all the time , '' renaissance president frank w. terrizzi said yesterday . three-month t-bill yields have fallen to 7.8 % from about 9 % at the start of the year . stock prices , meanwhile , are about 140 points lower than the peak of 2791.41 reached on the dow industrial average oct. 9 . are those declines enough to signal a partial return to stocks ? mr. terrizzi wo n't say specifically , explaining that if there was such a move , it would take about three days to complete the loose ends of the transaction . during that time , a buyer with the clout of a renaissance could end up driving up the price of stocks 0 it was trying to buy if it tipped its hand . but everything is relative to mr. terrizzi , so stocks in his view can become more attractive in comparison with bonds or t-bills , even if shares are more expensive than when they were sold in january . `` our -lcb- computer -rcb- model has a certain trigger point , '' he said . when the computer says switch , renaissance switches . the firm has made 17 previous shifts from one type of asset to another in its 10-year history . almost all have involved at least half and often the firm 's entire portfolio , as the computer searches for the most undervalued investment category , following a money-management style called tactical asset allocation . competing asset-allocation firms march to their own computer models , so some have been partly or fully invested in stocks this year while renaissance has sat on the sidelines . as a result , competitors say 0 renaissance has been looking for any opportunity to return to the stock market , rather than risk losing business by continuing to remain fully invested in treasury bills . mr. terrizzi confirms 0 some clients have left renaissance , but no major ones , and the firm has added new accounts .