just five months after ogilvy group was swallowed up in an unsolicited takeover , kenneth roman , ogilvy 's chairman and chief executive officer , said 0 he is leaving to take a top post at american express co . mr. roman , 59 years old , abruptly announced 0 he will leave the venerable ad agency , whose largest client is american express , to become american express 's executive vice president for corporate affairs and communications . he will succeed harry l. freeman , 57 , who has said 0 he will retire in december . mr. freeman said in august that he would retire by the end of this year to take `` executive responsibility '' for an embarrassing effort to discredit banker edmond safra . american express representatives apparently influenced the publication of unfavorable articles about mr. safra . the company later apologized and agreed to make $ 8 million in contributions to charities chosen by him . although mr. freeman is retiring , he will continue to work as a consultant for american express on a project basis . ad industry executives were n't surprised by mr. roman 's decision to leave ogilvy . the agency , under his direction , bitterly fought a takeover attempt by wpp group plc of london before succumbing in may . and although mr. roman and wpp 's chief executive , martin sorrell , have gone out of their way to be publicly supportive of each other , people close to mr. roman say 0 he was unhappy giving up control of the company . some executives also cite tension because of efforts by mr. sorrell , a financial man , to cut costs at the agency . mr. roman will be succeeded as the head of ogilvy 's flagship ad agency , ogilvy & mather worldwide , by graham phillips , 50 , who had been president of north american operations and who , like mr. sorrell , is british . alexander brody , 56 , will take on the newly created position of president of the world-wide agency and chief executive of its international operations . he had been president of the international operations . mr. roman also had overseen ogilvy group 's two other units , the scali mccabe sloves advertising agency and its research division , but those units will now report directly to wpp . mr. roman appears custom-made for the american express job . known as a traditional executive , he is very much in the conservative american express mold . moreover , after 26 years at ogilvy he had honed a reputation for being squeaky-clean and a straight arrow -- which can only help american express in the wake of the safra incident . he also is close to american express 's chairman and chief executive officer , james d. robinson iii . aside from working with mr. robinson on the american express advertising account for about 11 years , mr. roman serves on several of the same charities and boards as mr. robinson . the abrupt management change sparked widespread speculation that mr. roman had been pushed out of ogilvy 's top spot by mr. sorrell . but mr. roman flatly denied the speculation , saying 0 mr. sorrell had tried several times to persuade him to stay , offering various incentives and in one instance sending a note with a case of wine -lrb- the wine , naturally , was seagram 's brand , an ogilvy client -rrb- . `` he asked me not to resign . the implication that i was pushed aside would n't be accurate , '' mr. roman said . mr. sorrell , traveling in the far east , could n't be reached . mr. roman said 0 american express 's mr. robinson first approached him about the job in late september . according to industry executives , peter sutherland , a former european community commissioner from ireland , was also a serious contender for the american express job . although it ultimately was n't offered to him , he will be on retainer to american express as an adviser on international matters . after talking on and off for the past four weeks , mr. roman said 0 , he agreed to take the job because `` it 's the right time , it 's a terrific opportunity , and i think 0 i leave the company in very strong hands . it was my decision , not anyone else 's . '' mr. roman also brushed aside reports about infighting between him and mr. phillips , his successor at ogilvy . the two executives could hardly be more different . mr. roman comes across as a low-key executive ; mr. phillips has a flashier personality . during time off , mr. roman tends to his garden ; mr. phillips confesses to a fondness for , among other things , fast cars and planes . industry executives say that although the two executives used to clash more frequently , the wpp takeover brought them closer together . `` i 'm the guy who made him head of new york , head of the u.s. , president of north america , and recommended him -lcb- to mr. sorrell -rcb- as my successor . would i have done all those things successively if i did n't think 0 he was the right guy ? '' mr. roman asked . he labeled reports of friction `` ridiculous , '' and said that he spent part of the weekend on mr. phillips 's boat in connecticut . mr. roman will oversee american express 's public relations and government affairs , among other things , but he wo n't be involved in its advertising , which is handled by the operating units . `` i consider this a second career , '' he said . he also will sit on the company 's corporate planning and policy committee , made up of the top corporate and operating executives . mr. roman 's departure is n't expected to have any enormous repercussions at ogilvy . american express , kraft general foods , and mattel executives said 0 the move wo n't affect their relationships with the ad agency . `` general foods 's relationships with its agencies are based on the agencies ' work , and will continue to be , '' said david hurwitt , a vice president of kraft general foods . but some clients and analysts expressed concern that mr. phillips is n't as well-known to many clients . `` ken was my key contact , '' said j. nicholas hahn , president and chief executive officer of cotton inc. , which represents cotton producers . `` i do n't know -lcb- mr. phillips -rcb- all that well . i have n't seen or talked to him in several years . '' and some analysts questioned whether mr. phillips would have the skills 0 ogilvy needs to turn the agency around . while the agency has done well in many parts of the world , its flagship new york office has had a dismal track record recently ; it has won few new accounts while losing big ones , including maxwell house . `` i think 0 -lcb- mr. phillips -rcb- is going to need some help . i think 0 they need creative leadership , and i do n't think 0 they have it , '' said emma hill , an analyst with wertheim & co . ogilvy & mather 's top creative executive , norman berry , left the agency earlier this year . `` norm berry was a creative inspiration at the company , and nobody has filled that void , '' said ms. hill . but other analysts said that having mr. phillips succeed mr. roman would make for a smooth transition . `` graham phillips has been there a long time , knows the culture well , is aggressive , and apparently gets along well with '' mr. sorrell , said 0 andrew wallach , an analyst with drexel burnham lambert . `` it 's probably a reasonable transition . hopefully , he 'll be the answer to the problems 0 they 've had in new york . '' sale of saatchi unit close computer sciences corp. , el segundo , calif. , said 0 it is close to making final an agreement to buy cleveland consulting associates from saatchi & saatchi computer sciences would n't disclose the proposed purchase price for cleveland consulting , which counsels companies on logistics and supply . but david lord , managing editor of consultants news , an industry publication based in fitzwilliam , n.h. , said 0 an industry standard would suggest a purchase price of between one and two times cleveland consulting 's approximately $ 15 million annual revenue . both saatchi & saatchi , which announced its intention to sell off most of its consulting business in june , and cleveland consulting declined to comment on the proposed sale . ad notes ... . new account : ambase corp. , new york , awarded the ad account for its home insurance co. unit to biederman , kelly & shaffer , new york . billings were n't disclosed ... . puerto rico telephone co. awarded its $ 3 million account to west indies & grey , grey advertising 's office in puerto rico . diet coke : coca-cola co. yesterday said 0 singer elton john signed to appear in an ad for diet coke . details of the commercial , which will be part of the brand 's 1990 advertising campaign , were n't disclosed . mr. john becomes the latest of many music stars , including george michael and whitney houston , 0 to appear in ads for the diet drink .