chase manhattan bank chairman willard butcher is a conservative banker and a loyal republican , but on friday morning he had few kind words for president bush 's economic policy-making . `` there are some very significant issues out there , such as the fiscal deficit , the trade deficit , our relations with japan , that have to be the subject of major initiatives , '' he said in an interview . `` i 'd like to see that initiative , and i have n't . there is n't a big shot , an agenda . '' a few hours later , the stock market dropped 190 points . politicians tried to finger each other for the blame , although many analysts doubt that washington was singly responsible for wall street 's woes . but mr. butcher 's comments make one thing clear : some on wall street wonder if anyone is in charge of economic policy . consider this : -- by 11:59 p.m. tonight , president bush must order $ 16 billion of automatic , across-the-board cuts in government spending to comply with the gramm-rudman budget law . the cuts are necessary because congress and the administration have failed to reach agreement on a deficit-cutting bill . `` we simply do n't have strong leadership 0 to try to reduce the deficit and make tough choices , '' house budget committee chairman leon panetta -lrb- d. , calif . -rrb- said yesterday on nbc news 's `` meet the press . '' -- for the last two weeks , the bush administration and the federal reserve have been engaged in a semi-public battle over international economic policy . the administration has been trying to push the dollar lower ; the fed has been resisting . `` one of the things that continues to worry me is this monetary warfare between the treasury department and the federal reserve board , '' said lawrence kudlow , a bear , stearns & co. economist , on abc 's `` this week . '' -- the administration has sent out confusing signals about its response to a recent spate of airline takeovers . last month , transportation secretary sam skinner forced northwest airlines to reduce a stake held by klm royal dutch airlines . but he has since run into opposition from the treasury and the white house over that decision . and he has kept mum on how his decision might affect a bid for united airlines , which includes a big stake by british airways plc . some analysts say 0 uncertainty about washington 's anti-takeover policy was one reason that financing for the united airlines takeover fell through -- the event that triggered the market drop . in many ways , the backdrop to friday 's stock decline is eerily similar to that of october 1987 's 508-point crash . then , as now , the budget debate was behind schedule and automatic spending cuts were within days of taking hold . the treasury was locked in a battle over international economic policy , although at that time it was with west german officials rather than the federal reserve . and concern about official actions aimed at takeovers -- then by the tax-writing house ways and means committee rather than the transportation department -- were making markets nervous . the 1987 crash brought the reagan administration and democratic lawmakers to the table for the first budget summit , resulting in a two-year plan to reduce the deficit by more than $ 76 billion -- even though the deficit actually rose by nearly $ 12 billion during that period . but , barring further drops in the market this week , a similar outcome does n't seem likely this year . lawmakers and administration officials agree that friday 's drop , by itself , is n't enough to force both sides back to the table to try to reach a deficit-reduction agreement that would be more serious and more far-reaching than last spring 's gimmick-ridden plan , which still is n't fully implemented . one of the biggest reasons that new talks are n't likely to come about is that , as everyone learned in 1987 , the economy and the market can survive a one-day 508-point tumble . `` everybody thought 0 we were looking at a repetition of 1929 , that we were looking at a recession , '' rep. panetta said yesterday in an interview . `` that did not happen . they learned 0 they could survive it without much problem . '' but administration officials privately agree with mr. panetta , who said 0 a precipitous drop this week `` is going to force the president and congress to take a much harder look at fiscal policy . '' in that case , there will be plenty of blame 0 to go around . `` there is an underlying concern on the part of the american people -- and there should be - that the administration has not gone far enough in cutting this deficit and that congress has been unwilling to cut what the administration asked us to cut , '' said senate finance committee chairman lloyd bentsen -lrb- d. , texas -rrb- . nevertheless , it clearly will take more than friday 's 190-point decline to overcome the bitter feelings that have developed between lawmakers and white house budget director richard darman over the capital-gains fight . hill democrats are particularly angry over mr. bush 's claim that the capital-gains cut was part of april 's budget accord and his insistence on combining it with the deficit-reduction legislation . `` there is no prospect of any so-called grand compromise or deal next year because the administration simply did n't live up to this year 's deal , '' senate majority leader george mitchell -lrb- d. , maine -rrb- said yesterday on cbs news 's `` face the nation . '' during last week 's maneuverings on the deficit-cutting bill and the capital-gains issue , there were signs that senate republicans and the administration were at odds . at the very moment that senate republicans were negotiating a deal 0 to exclude capital gains from the deficit-reduction legislation , white house spokesman marlin fitzwater told reporters that it was the president 's policy to include it . when an agreement was reached to strip capital gains from the legislation , oregon sen. bob packwood , the ranking gop member of the tax-writing senate finance committee , hailed it . asked if the administration agreed , he curtly replied : 0 `` the adminstration will have to speak for itself . '' friday 's market tumble could spur action on reconciling the house and senate versions of the deficit-reduction measure , a process that is n't expected to begin until tomorrow at the soonest . senate republicans expressed the hope that the house would follow the lead of the senate , which on friday agreed to drop a variety of spending measures and tax breaks that would have increased the fiscal 1990 deficit . `` the market needs a strong signal that we 're serious about deficit reduction , and the best way 0 to do that is for the house of representatives to strip their bill '' of similar provisions , sen. warren rudman -lrb- r. , n.h . -rrb- . said 0 yesterday . the white house office of management and budget , whose calculations determine whether the gramm-rudman targets are met , estimated that the house-passed deficit-reduction measure would cut the fiscal 1990 shortfall by $ 6.2 billion , almost half of the congressional budget office 's estimate of $ 11.0 billion . rep. panetta said that omb 's figure would still be enough to avoid permanent across-the-board cuts , but added : 0 `` we 're getting very close to the margins here . '' no one in washington was willing to take the blame for provoking friday 's drop in the stock market . but some players were quick to seize the moment . before the sun had set on friday , richard rahn , the supply-side chief economist of the u.s. chamber of commerce , issued a statement attributing the drop in stock prices to the senate decision to postpone action on capital gains . `` investors , who had been holding assets in anticipation of a more favorable time 0 to sell , were spooked , '' he said . `` there have been many preposterous reasons advanced to support a capital-gains tax cut , '' sen. mitchell said during his television appearance , `` but i suggest 0 that is perhaps more than any of the others .