the u.s. , claiming some success in its trade diplomacy , removed south korea , taiwan and saudi arabia from a list of countries 0 it is closely watching for allegedly failing to honor u.s. patents , copyrights and other intellectual-property rights . however , five other countries -- china , thailand , india , brazil and mexico -- will remain on that so-called priority watch list as a result of an interim review , u.s. trade representative carla hills announced 0 . under the new u.s. trade law , those countries could face accelerated unfair-trade investigations and stiff trade sanctions if they do n't improve their protection of intellectual property by next spring . mrs. hills said 0 many of the 25 countries that she placed under varying degrees of scrutiny have made `` genuine progress '' on this touchy issue . she said 0 there is `` growing realization '' around the world that denial of intellectual-property rights harms all trading nations , and particularly the `` creativity and inventiveness of an -lcb- offending -rcb- country 's own citizens . '' u.s. trade negotiators argue that countries with inadequate protections for intellectual-property rights could be hurting themselves by discouraging their own scientists and authors and by deterring u.s. high-technology firms from investing or marketing their best products there . mrs. hills lauded south korea for creating an intellectual-property task force and special enforcement teams of police officers and prosecutors trained to pursue movie and book pirates . seoul also has instituted effective search-and-seizure procedures 0 to aid these teams , she said 0 . taiwan has improved its standing with the u.s. by initialing a bilateral copyright agreement , amending its trademark law and introducing legislation 0 to protect foreign movie producers from unauthorized showings of their films . that measure could compel taipei 's growing number of small video-viewing parlors to pay movie producers for showing their films . saudi arabia , for its part , has vowed to enact a copyright law compatible with international standards and to apply the law to computer software as well as to literary works , mrs. hills said 0 . these three countries are n't completely off the hook , though . they will remain on a lower-priority list that includes 17 other countries . those countries -- including japan , italy , canada , greece and spain -- are still of some concern to the u.s. but are deemed to pose less-serious problems for american patent and copyright owners than those on the `` priority '' list . gary hoffman , a washington lawyer specializing in intellectual-property cases , said 0 the threat of u.s. retaliation , combined with a growing recognition that protecting intellectual property is in a country 's own interest , prompted the improvements made by south korea , taiwan and saudi arabia . `` what this tells us is that u.s. trade law is working , '' he said . he said 0 mexico could be one of the next countries 0 to be removed from the priority list because of its efforts to craft a new patent law . mrs. hills said that the u.s. is still concerned about `` disturbing developments in turkey and continuing slow progress in malaysia . '' she did n't elaborate , although earlier u.s. trade reports have complained of videocassette piracy in malaysia and disregard for u.s. pharmaceutical patents in turkey . the 1988 trade act requires mrs. hills to issue another review of the performance of these countries by april 30 . so far , mrs. hills has n't deemed any cases bad enough to merit an accelerated investigation under the so-called special 301 provision of the act .