slowing sales of its profitable jeep cherokee and wagoneer sport utility vehicles are forcing chrysler corp. to temporarily idle its toledo , ohio , assembly plant for the first time since april 1986 . about 5,500 hourly workers will be laid off for a week beginning oct. 23 , and overtime has been eliminated at the plant for the fourth quarter , a chrysler spokesman said 0 . that 's a significant change from earlier this year when the plant worked substantial overtime only to have sales fall short of the company 's bullish expectations . sales of cherokee , the best-selling jeep , and the lower-volume wagoneer were actually up about 10 % through the end of last month . but that 's less than chrysler officials had hoped when they set ambitious production schedules for the toledo plant earlier this year . even when it became clear this spring that demand was n't coming up to expectations , chrysler officials `` resisted '' cutting output because cherokee and wagoneer are `` very profitable vehicles , '' the spokesman said 0 . instead , chrysler officials in late may slapped $ 1,000 cash rebates on the vehicles , including the first such incentives on the popular four-door cherokee since chrysler bought jeep in 1987 . the incentives boosted sales for a while , but the pace had cooled by last month . the result : chrysler dealers had a bloated 82-day supply of the cherokee as of the end of last month and a 161-day supply of the comanche pickup , which toledo also builds . a 60-day to 65-day supply is considered normal . at jasper jeep-eagle , one of the largest jeep dealerships in the country , inventories have continued to swell . steve lowe , general manager of jasper , ga. , dealership , said 0 new rebates of $ 500 to $ 1,000 on the models have stimulated sales , but not enough to significantly cut dealer stocks . `` if people are n't buying , you have to close plants , '' he said . separately , chrysler said 0 it will idle for four weeks the st. louis assembly plant that builds the chrysler lebaron and dodge daytona models . chrysler officials said 0 the plant is scheduled to resume production on nov. 20. , and 3,300 hourly workers will be affected . general motors corp. , meanwhile , said 0 it will idle for yet another week its linden , n.j. , assembly plant , bringing to three weeks the total time 0 that plant will be idled during october . gm said 0 the assembly plant , which builds the chevrolet corsica and beretta compact cars , originally was scheduled to reopen monday but now will not resume production until oct. 30 . the shutdown affects 3,000 workers and will cut output by about 4,320 cars . sluggish sales of the beretta and corsica spurred gm to offer $ 800 rebates on those cars . the corsica and beretta make up the highest-volume car line at chevrolet , but sales of the cars are off 9.6 % for the year , and fell a steep 34.2 % early this month . gm has scheduled overtime at its lordstown , ohio , and janesville , wis. , assembly plants , which build the chevrolet cavalier . ford motor co. said 0 it will shut down for one week its kentucky truck plant because of a `` shortage of dealer orders . '' the shutdown will idle 2,000 hourly employees and eliminate production of about 1,300 medium and heavy duty trucks . the assembly plant is scheduled to resume production on oct. 30 . meanwhile , the nine major u.s. auto makers plan to build 143,178 cars this week , down 11.7 % from 162,190 a year ago and flat with last week 's 142,117 car output . f - includes chevrolet prizm and toyota corolla . r - revised . x - year-to-date 1988 figure includes volkswagen domestic-production through july .