melvin belli 's san francisco law offices may have been the epicenter of legal activity after tuesday 's earthquake . in the first 25 minutes after his office 's telephone service was restored yesterday morning , 17 potential clients had called seeking the services of the self-proclaimed king of torts . mr. belli , like many other personal-injury lawyers , suspects that the earthquake , which measured 6.9 on the richter scale , will generate enough lawsuits 0 to keep this city 's personal-injury and construction lawyers busy for quite some time . suits are likely to be filed against engineering firms , contractors and developers , as well as against local-government agencies . but lawyers looking to cash in on the quake may have a tough time once their cases reach a judge . experts on california tort law say 0 protections afforded government agencies in such cases are pretty ironclad . even claims against individuals and companies face significant roadblocks . the major legal barrier is the principle that no one can be held liable for an `` act of god . '' for now , says 0 laurence drivon , president-elect of the 6,000-member california trial lawyers association , `` the last thing 0 we really need to worry about is whether anybody is going to get sued , or whether they have liability or not . we still have people wandering around in a daze in san francisco worrying about whether it 's going to rain tonight . '' but that wo n't stop plaintiffs ' lawyers from seeking a little room for maneuvering . in san francisco , they argue 0 , an earthquake was a near certainty . therefore , engineering firms , construction contractors and developers can be sued for not keeping structures up to standard , and government agencies can be held accountable for failing to properly protect citizens from such a foreseeable disaster , if negligence can be proven . `` my prediction is 0 there will be mass litigation over errors and omissions in engineering and contracting , '' says stanley chesley , a well-known cincinnati plaintiffs lawyer . from what he saw on television , mr. chesley points out that interstate 880 , which collapsed and killed more than 200 commuters , suffered serious damage while surrounding buildings appeared to sustain no damage whatsoever . he adds that `` they were aware of the propensity for earthquakes and the san andreas fault . '' the flamboyant and publicity-conscious mr. belli says 0 he already has investigators looking into who could be held liable for the damage on the bay bridge and the interstate approaching it . `` we wo n't know until the smoke clears -- but yes , we 're looking into it , '' he says . mr. belli says 0 he wants to know whether state or federal engineers or private companies could have prevented the damage . mr. belli , who was at candlestick park for the world series tuesday night , says 0 he has hired civil engineers to check out his own mildly damaged building and to investigate the bridge collapse . defense lawyers , perhaps understandably , say that plaintiffs ' lawyers taking such an approach will have little success in pursuing their claims , though they add that the facts of each case must be looked at individually . `` a lot of this is going to be code-related , '' says ignazio j. ruvolo , a construction law specialist at bronson , bronson & mckinnon , a san francisco law firm . plaintiffs , he says 0 , will argue that damaged structures were n't built to proper design standards . but if defendants can prove that they met san francisco 's stringent building codes , `` that 's probably going to protect them , '' mr. ruvolo says 0 . government entities , continues 0 mr. ruvolo , could be protected by the california government tort liability act . under the statute , agencies are provided `` defenses that normally are n't available in the private sector , '' mr. ruvolo says 0 . `` the legislature does not want to inhibit the unique government activities by exposing public entities to liability . '' built into the statute are so-called design immunities , which are likely to protect government agencies , according to mr. ruvolo and richard covert , a lawyer with the california department of transportation , which oversees the damaged bay bridge . the state is protected when plans and designs for public structures were approved ahead of time or when structures met previously approved standards , says 0 mr. covert . he believes 0 those defenses might well apply to the bay bridge collapse . nevertheless , he adds , `` i would n't get totally shocked if we get lawsuits out of the bay bridge . '' if there 's going to be a race to the courthouse , it has n't started yet . mr. covert had to search through law books scattered on the floor of his office yesterday , and mr. belli 's courtyard was strewn with bricks . wednesday , mr. belli 's staff was n't permitted into his office by city officials worried about their safety . he said 0 he set up shop on the sidewalk in front of his town-house office and helped victims apply for federal aid -- free of charge . in a news release issued by mr. drivon , the trial lawyers association also promised free assistance to victims . the association said 0 it would monitor the conduct of lawyers and warned that solicitation of business is unethical .