china 's slide toward recession is beginning to look like a free fall . in a report on china 's foundering economy , the official state statistical bureau disclosed that industrial output last month rose 0.9 % from a year earlier - the lowest growth rate in a decade for september . retail sales are plummeting , while consumer prices still are rising . chinese and foreign economists now predict prolonged stagflation : low growth and high inflation . `` the economy is crashing hard , '' says an asian economist in beijing . `` the slowdown is taking hold a lot more quickly and devastatingly than anyone had expected . '' a lengthy recession , if it materializes , would drain state coffers and create severe hardships for urban workers . experts predict 0 the coming year will be characterized by flat or negative industrial growth , rising unemployment and a widening budget deficit . unless the government suddenly reverses course , wages for most workers wo n't keep pace with inflation , creating a potential source of urban unrest . the economy 's slowdown is due only partly to the austerity program launched in september 1988 to cool an overheated economy and tame inflation . -lrb- industrial output surged 21 % in 1988 , while inflation peaked last february at nearly 30 % . -rrb- the slowdown also results from chronic energy and raw-materials shortages that force many factories to restrict operations to two or three days a week . in western , market-driven countries , recessions often have a bright side : prodding the economy to greater efficiency . in china , however , there is n't likely to be any silver lining because the economy remains guided primarily by the state . instead , china is likely to shell out ever-greater subsidies to its coddled state-run enterprises , which ate up $ 18 billion in bailouts last year . nor are any of these inefficient monoliths likely to be allowed to go bankrupt . rather , the brunt of the slowdown will be felt in the fast-growing private and semi-private `` township '' enterprises , which have fallen into disfavor as china 's leaders re-emphasize an orthodox marxist preference for public ownership . `` when the going gets rough , china penalizes the efficient and rewards the incompetent , '' says a western economist . reports of an economy near recession come as officials prepare a major communist party plenum for sometime in the next few weeks . the meeting is expected to call for heightened austerity for two years . but with industrial growth stagnant and inflation showing signs of easing , some voices may call for measures 0 to pump new life into the economy . some analysts believe 0 china soon will begin relaxing economic controls , particularly by loosening credit . that would benefit chinese enterprises as well as sino-foreign joint ventures , both of which have been plagued by shortages of working capital . a dangerous buildup this year of billions of dollars in inter-company debts threatens , if unchecked , to bring the economy to a collapse . one sign of a possible easing of credit policy was the decision this week of people 's bank of china , the central bank , to allocate $ 5.4 billion in short-term loans to pay farmers for the autumn harvest , the official china daily reported 0 . but while pumping more money into the economy would bring relief to many industries , it also runs the risk of triggering another period of runaway growth and steep inflation . the cycle has been repeated several times since china began reforming its planned economy in 1979 . and , because china 's leaders have abandoned plans to drastically reform the economy , it is likely to continue , analysts say 0 . the statistical bureau 's report , cited in china daily , notes that industrial output in september totaled $ 29.4 billion , a rise of just 0.9 % from a year earlier . output declined in several provinces , including jiangsu and zhejiang , two key coastal areas , and sichuan , the nation 's agricultural breadbasket . production in shanghai , china 's industrial powerhouse and the largest source of tax revenue for the central government , fell 1.8 % for the month . nationwide , output of light industrial products declined 1.8 % -- `` the first decline in 10 years , '' a bureau spokesman told china daily 0 . in an unusually direct statement , the bureau spokesman recommended that state banks extend more credit to shopkeepers so that they can purchase manufacturers ' goods . `` this will prevent a slide in industrial production , which will otherwise cause new panic buyings , '' the spokesman said .