-lrb- during its centennial year , the wall street journal will report events of the past century that stand as milestones of american business history . -rrb- may 1 , 1975 , signaled a distressful may day for securities houses , which were forced to end 183 years of charging fixed commissions . it scared brokers , but most survived . it took effect after seven years of bitter debate between the securities and exchange commission and traders and exchanges . despite warnings from such leaders as former federal reserve board chairman william mcchesney martin that unfixed commissions would undo the industry , the sec in september 1973 said 0 full competition must start may l , 1975 . the timing for change was right . institutions had become active market players in the early 1970s and sought exchange seats to handle their own trades . and the industry was rife with brokers trying to secure big client orders by using kickbacks , gifts , women and junkets . within three weeks of the 1975 end to fixed rates there were all-out price wars among brokers fighting for institutional business , with rate slashes of 35 % to 60 % below pre-may 1 levels . ray garrett jr. , sec chairman , said 0 the `` breadth and depth of the discounting is more than i expected . '' even a federal measure in june allowing houses to add research fees to their commissions did n't stop it . longer term , the impact is unclear . the change prompted the rise of discount brokers and a reduction in securities research firms . but there are currently more exchange members than in 1975 , with the bigger houses gaining a larger share of total commissions . commissions , however , account for a smaller share of investment-house business as takeover advisory fees have soared . foreign stock markets , with which the u.s. is entwined , also have ended fixed commissions in recent years . it came in london 's `` big bang '' 1986 deregulation ; and toronto 's `` little bang '' the same year . paris is currently phasing out fixed commissions under its `` le petit bang '' plan .