` frequent drinker ' offer stirs up spirited debate to grab a bigger piece of the declining scotch market , seagram co. has launched a controversial `` frequent drinker '' promotion for its chivas regal brand . under the program , dubbed chivas class , customers who send in two labels from chivas bottles will receive an upgrade in seating class on some trans world airlines flights . repeat customers also can purchase luxury items at reduced prices . but at a time of mounting concern over alcohol abuse , some liquor marketers consider seagram 's frequent buyer promotion risky . `` i 'm surprised 0 they 're doing this , '' says penn kavanagh , president of schieffelin & somerset co. , which markets johnnie walker scotches . `` i would be very leery of anything that says if you drink more , you get more . '' others question the impact on chivas 's upscale image of a promotion that has customers soaking off labels . `` it 's really bizarre , '' says albert lerman , creative director at the wells rich greene ad agency . `` chivas has an image of something 0 you would savor , rather than guzzle . '' chivas class is n't the first such promotion . last year , j&b scotch offered 500 twa frequent flier miles in exchange for a label . and dewar 's gave discounts on scottish merchandise to people who sent in bottle labels . but the scope of seagram 's chivas promotion sets it apart . the current campaign is just the first leg of an aggressive three-to-five-year direct marketing plan . seagram says 0 the promotion is designed to build brand loyalty rather than promote heavy drinking . seagram asks customers to buy only two or three bottles over a 12-month period , says 0 richard shaw , vice president of u.s. direct marketing . `` we 're not asking them to save up 50 proof-of-purchases . we 're not saying drink more , we 're saying trade up . '' goya concocts a milk for hispanic tastes most food companies these days are trimming the fat and cholesterol content of their products to appeal to health-conscious consumers . but goya foods inc. believes 0 it can milk some sales by bucking the trend . the secaucus , n.j. , company has formed a joint venture with a distributor called la lecheria to market a higher-fat milk targeted at hispanic consumers . to give leche fresca the creamier taste 0 goya says 0 hispanics prefer , the new brand has a butterfat content of 3.8 % . that compares with 3.5 % butterfat for whole milk . a spokesman for borden inc. , the nation 's largest milk producer , concedes 0 goya may be on to something . borden sells considerably more whole milk than reduced-fat milks in southern and hispanic markets , he says 0 . borden even tested a milk with 4 % butterfat in the south , but decided 0 the market was too small . goya is selling leche fresca in nearly 500 grocery stores and bodegas in new york and parts of new jersey . and it 's adding 15 to 20 new outlets a day , says 0 greg ricca , sales director at la lecheria . because of leche fresca 's success , he says 0 , the joint venture is developing other dairy products tailored to hispanic tastes . jewelry makers copy cosmetics sales ploys for years , costume jewelry makers fought a losing battle . jewelry displays in department stores were often cluttered and uninspired . and the merchandise was , well , fake . as a result , marketers of faux gems steadily lost space in department stores to more fashionable rivals -- cosmetics makers . but lately , retailers say 0 , fake has become more fashionable . and jewelry makers are beginning to use many of the same marketing tricks honed in the aggressive world of cosmetics . last year , the total women 's fashion jewelry business topped $ 4.9 billion , says 0 karen alberg , editor of accessories magazine . and it 's growing fast , with annual sales gains of more than 10 % . to increase their share of that business , jewelry makers such as crystal brands inc. 's trifari and monet units and swank inc. , maker of anne klein jewelry , are launching new lines with as much fanfare as the fragrance companies . they 're hiring models 0 to stroll the aisles sporting their jewels , and they 're even beginning to borrow a perennial favorite of the beauty business -- offering a gift when consumers make a purchase . `` we 've started trying just about anything to keep sales moving in the stores , '' says kim renk , a swank vice president . but there are limits . ms. renk says 0 retailers nixed a promotion for pins with animal motifs . her idea : bring in live zoo animals . trifari , whose national ads earlier this year included paper cutouts of its costume finery , takes a tamer approach . the company focuses on the how-to aspects , says 0 andrew e. philip , president . trifari now trains sales help to advise customers on the best earring styles . but cosmetics firms still have one big marketing edge : they motivate sales people with commissions . jewelry makers rarely pay commissions and are n't expected to anytime soon . odds and ends despite growing interest in the environment , u.s. consumers have n't shown much interest in refillable packages for household products . procter & gamble co. recently introduced refillable versions of four products , including tide and mr. clean , in canada , but does n't plan to bring them to the u.s. . marketers believe 0 most americans wo n't make the convenience trade-off ... . braumeisters ltd. tests a beer brewed with oat bran , rather than rice or corn . called otto 's original oat bran beer , the brew costs about $ 12.75 a case . no cholesterol , of course .