mccaw cellular communications inc. said 0 it sent a letter to lin broadcasting corp. clarifying its revised tender offer for lin and asking lin to conduct `` a fair auction . '' the letter apparently came in response to a request for clarification by lin earlier this week . lin , which has agreed with bellsouth corp. to merge their cellular-telephone businesses , said then that it would n't take a position on mccaw 's revised tender offer . earlier this month , mccaw revised its offer to $ 125 a share for 22 million lin shares . mccaw is seeking 50.3 % of the cellular and broadcasting concern ; the revised offer includes a feature requiring mccaw to begin an auction process in july 1994 that would buy out remaining holders at a per-share price roughly equivalent to what a third party might then have to pay for all of lin . the letter outlines broad powers for an independent group of directors provided for in the revised offer . in a statement , craig o. mccaw , chairman and chief executive officer of mccaw , said : `` we trust 0 lin will take no further actions that favor bellsouth . '' mccaw said 0 the three independent directors provided for in the offer would be designated by the current board . the successors would be nominated by the independent directors . lin would have a priority right to pursue all opportunities to acquire u.s. cellular interests in markets other than those in which mccaw holds an interest , or which are contiguous to those markets , unless lin has an interest there or contiguous to it . independent directors would have veto rights to any acquisition if they unanimously decide 0 it is n't in lin 's best interest . independent directors would be able to block transactions 0 they unanimously deem 0 would be likely to depress the private market value of lin at the time 0 it is to be sold in five years . if lin is put up for sale rather than purchased by mccaw in five years , mccaw wo n't submit a bid unless the independent directors request it , and the independent directors will run the bidding . the directors would be able to sell particular assets to enable such buyers as the regional bell operating companies to purchase the company 's interests .