euro disneyland shares made a debut like snow white yesterday while most of the london stock market looked like it had eaten the evil queen 's poisoned apple . in its first day of when-issued trading here , euro disney soared like dumbo to close at 814 pence -lrb- $ 13.05 -rrb- , up 15 % from its 707-pence offering price . the overall london market , following wall street 's early nosedive , took a late beating . the financial times-stock exchange 100-share index plummeted 40.4 points to close at 2149.3 . traders credited euro disney 's share performance to the tremendous hyping of the project that the shares are destined to help finance : walt disney co. 's 4,800-acre theme park 20 miles east of paris . the park is slated to open in 1992 . `` the issue was very well-received -- disney is such a well-known , you can say world-wide , name , '' said vernon dempsey , head trader of european equities at kleinwort benson ltd. , which is making a market in the issue . mr. dempsey estimated that the issue 's london debut was accompanied by `` very , very heavy turnover -- between five million and six million shares . '' most of the buying was institutional , he added . official trading in the shares will start in london , paris and brussels on nov. 6 , when the french-franc denominated offering , valued at the equivalent of nearly $ 1 billion , comes to market in the european community . u.s. investors will be permitted to buy the shares from ec investors 90 days later . because of the interest connected with the issue , the london exchange took the unusual step of letting traders establish an officially sanctioned when-issued market . a volatile , unofficial `` gray '' market in the shares has been operating in paris for about two weeks . in contrast to the london performance , euro disney there closed down three francs yesterday , at 79 1\/2 francs -lrb- $ 12.66 -rrb- bid , but still about 10 % over the 72-franc offering price . `` a lot of people are getting hurt on this wicked whipsawing , '' cautioned alistair cuddeford , a london-based salomon brothers international ltd. trader who makes a market in franc-denominated euro disney shares . `` there should be no great rush for investors to buy this . a lot of big european banks , mostly french , and swiss arb accounts have been buying the stock just to flip it '' for a quick profit , he said 0 .