insurers face the prospect of paying out billions of dollars for damages caused by this week 's california earthquake . getting a grip on the extent of the damages is proving a far more difficult task than what insurers faced after hurricane hugo ripped through the caribbean and the carolinas last month . the earthquake 's toll , including possible deep structural damage , goes far beyond the more easily observed damage from a hurricane , says 0 george reider , a vice president in aetna life & casualty insurance co. 's claims division . but investors are betting that the financial and psychological impact of the earthquake , coming so soon after the hurricane , will help stem more than two years of intense price-cutting wars among business insurers . reflecting that logic , insurance-company stocks posted strong gains . aetna and other insurers are hiring engineers and architects 0 to help them assess structural damage . most insurers already have mobilized their `` catastrophe '' teams to begin processing claims from their policyholders in northern california . since commercial air travel is interrupted , aetna , based in hartford , conn. , chartered three planes 0 to fly claims adjusters into sacramento and then planned for them to drive to the bay area . about 25 adjusters were dispatched yesterday afternoon , along with laptop computers , cellular phones and blank checks . some adjusters , already in other parts of california , drove to the disaster area with recreational vehicles and mobile homes that could be used as makeshift claims-processing centers . insurers will be advertising 800 numbers -- probably on the radio -- that policyholders can call to get assistance on how to submit claims . state farm mutual automobile insurance co. , the largest home and auto insurer in california , believes 0 the losses from the earthquake could be somewhat less than the $ 475 million in damages 0 it expects to pay out for claims resulting from hurricane hugo . state farm , based in bloomington , ind. , is also the largest writer of personal-property earthquake insurance in california . earthquake insurance is sold as a separate policy or a specific endorsement `` rider '' on a homeowner 's policy in california , because of the area 's vulnerability to earthquakes . state farm said 0 about 25 % of its policyholders in california have also purchased earthquake insurance . allstate insurance co. , a unit of sears , roebuck & co. , said 0 about 23 % of its personal property policyholders -- about 28 % in the san franciso area -- also have earthquake coverage . the association of california insurance companies estimated 0 damage to residential property could total $ 500 million , but only $ 100 million to $ 150 million is insured , it said 0 . officials from the american insurance association 's property-claim service division , which coordinates the efforts of the claims adjusters in an area after a natural disaster , will be flying to san francisco today . they expect to have a preliminary estimate of the damages in a day or two . roads and bridges in the bay area appear to have suffered some of the most costly damage . highways , such as the section of interstate 880 that collapsed in oakland , generally do n't have insurance coverage . industry officials say 0 the bay bridge -- unlike some bridges -- has no earthquake coverage , either , so the cost of repairing it probably would have to be paid out of state general operating funds . however , the bridge , which charges a $ 1 toll each way , does have `` loss of income '' insurance 0 to replace lost revenue if the operation of the bridge is interrupted for more than seven days . that coverage is provided by a syndicate of insurance companies including fireman 's fund corp. , based in novato , calif. , and cigna corp. , based in philadelphia . earthquake-related claims are n't expected to cause significant financial problems for the insurance industry as a whole . instead , even with the liabilities of two natural disasters in recent weeks , analysts said 0 the total capital of the industry is likely to be higher at year end than it was at midyear . indeed , the earthquake could contribute to a turnaround in the insurance cycle in a couple of ways . for example , insurers may seek to limit their future exposure to catastrophes by increasing the amount of reinsurance 0 they buy . such increased demand for reinsurance , along with the losses 0 the reinsurers will bear from these two disasters , are likely to spur increases in reinsurance prices that will later be translated into an overall price rise . reinsurance is protection taken out by the insurance firms themselves . `` we are saying 0 this is the breaking point , this is the event that will change the psychology of the marketplace , '' said william yankus , an analyst with conning & co. , a hartford firm that specializes in the insurance industry . his firm , along with some others , issued new buy recommendations on insurer stocks yesterday . among the insurance stocks , big gainers included american international group , up $ 3.25 to $ 102.625 ; general re corp. , up $ 2.75 to $ 86.50 ; aetna , up $ 2.375 to $ 59.50 ; and marsh & mclennan inc. , up $ 3.125 to $ 75.875 . still , a few individual companies , most likely smaller ones , could be devastated . `` i think 0 there is a damned good chance 0 someone is going to hit the skids on this , '' said oppenheimer & co. analyst myron picoult . he suspects 0 some insurers who had purchased reinsurance to limit their exposure to catastrophes will discover 0 that reinsurance was used up by hurricane hugo . british , west german , scandinavian and other overseas insurers are bracing for big claims from the san francisco earthquake disaster . although it 's unclear how much exposure the london market will face , u.k. underwriters traditionally have a large reinsurance exposure to u.s. catastrophe coverage . jack byrne , chairman of fireman 's fund , said 0 this disaster will test the catastrophe reinsurance market , causing these rates to soar . the catastrophe losses sustained by insurers this year will probably be the worst on an inflation-adjusted basis since 1906 -- when another earthquake sparked the great san francisco fire . orin kramer , an insurance consultant in new york , estimates that the 1906 san francisco destruction , on an inflation-adjusted basis , included insured losses of $ 5.8 billion . he is estimating 0 this week 's disaster will generate insured losses of $ 2 billion to $ 4 billion , following about $ 4 billion in costs to insurers from hurricane hugo .