gaf , part iii is scheduled to begin today . after two mistrials , the stakes in the stock manipulation trial of gaf corp. and its vice chairman , james t. sherwin , have changed considerably . the first two gaf trials were watched closely on wall street because they were considered to be important tests of the government 's ability to convince a jury of allegations stemming from its insider-trading investigations . in an eight-count indictment , the government charged gaf , a wayne , n.j. , chemical maker , and mr. sherwin with illegally attempting to manipulate the common stock of union carbide corp. in advance of gaf 's planned sale of a large block of the stock in 1986 . the government 's credibility in the gaf case depended heavily on its star witness , boyd l. jefferies , the former los angeles brokerage chief who was implicated by former arbitrager ivan boesky , and then pointed the finger at mr. sherwin , takeover speculator salim b. lewis and corporate raider paul bilzerian . the gaf trials were viewed as previews of the government 's strength in its cases against mr. lewis and mr. bilzerian . mr. jefferies 's performance as a witness was expected to affect his sentencing . but gaf 's bellwether role was short-lived . the first gaf trial ended in a mistrial after four weeks when u.s. district judge mary johnson lowe found that a prosecutor improperly , but unintentionally , withheld a document . after 93 hours of deliberation , the jurors in the second trial said 0 they were hopelessly deadlocked , and another mistrial was declared on march 22 . meanwhile , a federal jury found mr. bilzerian guilty on securities fraud and other charges in june . a month later , mr. jefferies was spared a jail term by a federal judge who praised him for helping the government . in august , mr. lewis pleaded guilty to three felony counts . nevertheless , the stakes are still high for the players directly involved in the gaf case . the mistrials have left the reputations of gaf , mr. sherwin and gaf chairman samuel heyman in limbo . for mr. sherwin , a conviction could carry penalties of five years in prison and a $ 250,000 fine on each count . gaf faces potential fines of $ 500,000 for each count . individuals familiar with the case said that throughout september , defense attorneys were talking with the government in an effort to prevent a trial , but by the end of the month the talks had ended . there is much speculation among attorneys not involved that the strategy of gaf 's attorney , arthur liman , and mr. sherwin 's counsel , stephen kaufman , will include testimony by mr. sherwin or mr. heyman . neither testified at the previous trials . for now , defense attorneys are tight-lipped about their plans . max gitter , another gaf defense attorney , said yesterday , `` as we go in for the third time , yogi berra 's famous line is apt : ` it 's deja vu all over again . ' '' dalkon shield claimants hope to stop reorganization-plan appeal . attorneys for more than 18,000 women who claim injuries from the dalkon shield contraceptive device have asked the u.s. supreme court to refuse to hear an appeal of the bankruptcy-law reorganization plan for a.h. robins co. , which manufactured the device . the dispute pits two groups of claimants against each other . baltimore attorney michael a. pretl and 17 other attorneys representing 18,136 claimants in the u.s. and abroad argue that the appeal would delay -- and perhaps even destroy -- a $ 2.38 billion settlement fund that is the centerpiece of the reorganization plan . the bankruptcy-court reorganization is being challenged before the supreme court by a dissident group of claimants because it places a cap on the total amount of money available to settle claims . it also bars future suits against robins company officials , members of the robins family and robins 's former insurer , aetna life & casualty co . the latter provision is `` legally unprecedented , '' said 0 alan b. morrison , a public interest lawyer in washington , d.c. , who is challenging the plan on behalf of 900 claimants . more than 100,000 claims against robins are pending . the company made and marketed the dalkon shield in the early 1970s amid mounting evidence that it could cause serious injuries . robins has been in proceedings under chapter 11 of the u.s. bankruptcy code since august 1985 ; such proceedings give it protection from creditor lawsuits while it works out a plan for paying its debts . american home products corp. wants to acquire robins , but only if all legal challenges to the plan are exhausted . in a brief filed with the supreme court last week , mr. pretl criticizes the appeal for raising `` abstract '' and `` theoretical '' legal issues , while jeopardizing the proposed reorganization and the settlement payments to claimants . the supreme court is scheduled to consider the case nov. 3 and may issue a decision as early as nov. 6 . jury 's criminal conviction under superfund law is a first . charles a. donohoo , sole proprieter of a louisville , ky. , demolition company , was found guilty of violating the superfund law as well as the clean air act . criminal convictions under the federal superfund law are rare , and the decision is the first jury verdict in such a case . under superfund , those who owned , generated or transported hazardous waste are liable for its cleanup , regardless of whether their actions were legal at the time . environmental lawyers say 0 virtually all of the superfund cases to date have involved civil penalties designed to insure cleanup of past polluting activities . but superfund also contains a criminal provision concerning the release of toxic substances into the environment . in 1986 congress strengthened the penalty by making it a felony . mr. donohoo was convicted in louisville late last month of violating superfund by failing to report the release of asbestos into the environment from a building 0 he was demolishing . he was also convicted of failing to properly remove asbestos from the building , a violation of the clean air act . the government sought a criminal penalty because `` no cleanup is possible here . once -lcb- asbestos -rcb- is released into the environment , it can lodge anywhere , '' says richard a. dennis , the assistant u.s. attorney who prosecuted the case . mr. donohoo is scheduled to be sentenced dec. 11 . his lawyer could not be reached for comment . mr. donohoo faces as much as three years in prison and a $ 250,000 fine for the superfund conviction and as much as one year in prison and a $ 100,000 fine for the violation of the clean air act . ted bundy's lawyers switch to victims ' side in death-sentence case . wilmer , cutler & pickering , the washington , d.c. , law firm that spent over $ 1 million fighting the execution of mass-murderer ted bundy -- who eventually was executed -- has taken on another death penalty case before the supreme court , this time on the side of the family of four murder victims in arkansas . the law firm has filed a friend-of-the-court brief jointly with the washington legal foundation , a conservative legal group . the key issue in the case , which the law firm is handling without a fee , or pro bono , is whether a person sentenced to death can voluntarily waive his rights of appellate review . the murderer , ronald gene simmons , was convicted of killing 14 people . another murderer on death row has appealed mr. simmons 's death sentence in a `` next friend '' capacity . wilmer cutler 's brief argues that there is no mandatory appellate review of capital sentences and that the inmate who filed the appeal lacks proper standing . p.j. mode , wilmer cutler 's managing partner , says 0 the trial team that represented mr. bundy was asked by the firm 's pro bono committee whether the new case posed a conflict and that no objections were raised . the coupling of the law firm and the washington legal foundation is odd also , because wilmer cutler was one of the firms singled out for criticism two years ago by the conservative legal group for displaying a liberal bias in its pro bono work . `` we give them a lot of credit for taking this case , '' says wlf 's alan slobodin . the case of the fake dalis : in federal court in manhattan , three defendants pleaded guilty to charges of fraud in connection with the sale of fake salvador dali lithographs . james burke and larry evans , formerly owners of the now-defunct barclay gallery , and prudence clark , a barclay sales representative , were charged with conducting high-pressure telephone sales in which they misrepresented cheap copies of dali artwork as signed , limited-edition lithographs . the posters were sold for $ 1,300 to $ 6,000 , although the government says 0 they had a value of only $ 53 to $ 200 apiece . henry pitman , the assistant u.s. attorney handling the case , said 0 about 1,000 customers were defrauded and that barclay 's total proceeds from the sales were $ 3.4 million . attorneys for messrs. burke and evans and ms. clarke said that although their clients admitted to making some misrepresentations in the sales , they had believed that the works were authorized by mr. dali , who died in january . the posters were printed on paper pre-signed by mr. dali , the attorneys said 0 .