the berlin wall still stands . but the man who built it has fallen . east germany yesterday removed erich honecker , one of the staunchest holdouts against the reform rumbling through the communist world , in an effort to win back the confidence of its increasingly rebellious citizens . but while it was a move that stunned the east bloc , it hardly ushers in an era of reform -- at least anytime soon . for the politburo replaced mr. honecker , who had led east germany for 18 years and before that headed its security apparatus , with a man cut of the same cloth : egon krenz , the most recent internal-security chief and a longtime honecker protege . east germany , it is clear 0 , is no poland , where the communist party now shares power with the democratically elected solidarity union . nor is it a hungary , where yesterday the parliament approved constitutional changes meant to help turn the communist nation into a multiparty democracy . still , any change in east germany has enormous implications , for both east and west . it raises the long-cherished hopes of many germans for reunification -- a prospect that almost equally alarms political leaders in moscow , washington and western europe . mr. krenz , 52 , was named the new party chief just minutes after the party 's 163-member central committee convened in east berlin . although the east german news agency adn claimed 0 mr. honecker had asked to be relieved of his duties for `` health reasons , '' west german government sources said 0 the 26-man politburo had asked for his resignation at a separate meeting late tuesday . -lrb- mr. honecker was twice hospitalized this summer for a gall bladder ailment and his physical condition has been the subject of intense speculation in the western media . -rrb- adn said 0 mr. honecker , a hard-line stalinist who in 1961 supervised the construction of the berlin wall , also was relieved of his title as head of state and his position as chief of the military . mr. krenz is expected to be formally named to all three positions once the nation 's parliament convenes later this week . mr. honecker 's ignoble fall culminates nearly two decades of iron-handed leadership during which mr. honecker , now 77 years old , built east germany into the most economically advanced nation in the soviet bloc . his grip on power unraveled this summer as thousands of his countrymen , dissatisfied by the harshness of his rule , fled to the west . thousands more have taken to the streets in the last month in east germany 's largest wave of domestic unrest since a workers ' uprising in 1953 . in washington , the bush administration took a characteristically cautious and skeptical view of the leadership change . the official line was to offer warmer ties to mr. krenz , provided 0 he is willing to institute reforms . but u.s. officials have strong doubts that he is a reformer . president bush told reporters : `` whether that -lcb- the leadership change -rcb- reflects a change in east-west relations , i do n't think so . because mr. krenz has been very much in accord with the policies of honecker . '' one top u.s. expert on east germany added : `` there is no clear-cut champion of reform , that we know of , in the east german leadership . '' indeed , mr. krenz said on east german television last night that there will be no sharing of power with pro-democracy groups . he said , 0 while dialogue is important , enough forums already exist `` in which different interests '' can express themselves . the removal of mr. honecker was apparently the result of bitter infighting within the top ranks of the communist party . according to west german government sources , mr. honecker and several senior politburo members fought over the last week to delay any decisions about a leadership change . but , with public demonstrations in the country growing in size and intensity , mr. honecker and several key allies lost out in this battle , officials say 0 . those allies included politburo members guenter mittag , who has long headed economic affairs , and joachim hermann , chief of information policy . both men were also relieved of their duties yesterday . although other resignations may follow , it 's still not clear to what extent the change in party personnel will alter the government 's resistance to fundamental change . clearly , the central figure in this process is egon krenz . born in 1937 in a baltic sea town now part of poland , he was eight years old when world war ii ended . like west german chancellor helmut kohl , he represents the postwar generation that has grown up during germany 's division . since joining the politburo in 1983 as its youngest member , mr. krenz had acquired the nickname `` crown prince , '' a reference to the widely held view that he was the hand-picked successor to mr. honecker . in fact , the two men have had strikingly similar career paths , both having served as chief of internal security before their rise to the top party position . moreover , both men have hewn to a similar hard-line philosophy . notably , one of mr. krenz 's few official visits overseas came a few months ago , when he visited china after the massacre in beijing . he later defended the chinese government 's response during a separate visit to west germany . east german protestantism in particular fears mr. krenz , in part because of an incident in january 1988 when he was believed to have ordered the arrest of hundreds of dissidents who had sought refuge in the church . however , mr. krenz also has a reputation for being politically savvy . his shrewd ability to read the shifting popular mood in east germany is best illustrated by his apparent break with his old mentor , mr. honecker . indeed , according to west german government sources , he was one of the leaders in the power struggle that toppled mr. honecker . in recent days , mr. krenz has sought to project a kinder image . according to a report widely circulating in east berlin , it was mr. krenz who ordered police to stop using excessive force against demonstrators in leipzig . `` he does n't want to have the image of the gun man , '' says fred oldenburg , an expert at the bonn-sponsored institute of east european and international studies in cologne . `` he 's not a reformer -- he wants to have the image of a reformer . '' as part of his image polishing , mr. krenz is expected to take modest steps toward reform to rebuild confidence among the people and reassert the party 's authority . besides sacking other senior politburo officials who allied themselves with mr. honecker , mr. krenz could loosen controls on the news media , free up travel restrictions , and establish a dialogue with various dissident groups . but will it be enough ? west german government officials and western analysts are doubtful . `` he does n't signify what people want , so the unrest will go on , '' mr. oldenburg predicts . at the same time , the expectations of the east german people are great and will continue to grow . says one west german official : `` what 's necessary now is the process of democratization . not just that people are being heard but that their interests are being taken seriously . '' chancellor kohl , meanwhile , has invited mr. krenz to open discussions with bonn on a wide range of subjects . reports in the west german press , citing sources in east germany , suggest 0 mr. krenz may serve only as a bridge between mr. honecker and a genuine reform leader . adding to that speculation is mr. krenz 's reputation as a heavy drinker , who is said to also suffer from diabetes . `` this is a dynamic process and we 're experiencing the first step , '' the bonn official adds . the selection of mr. krenz may also disappoint moscow . soviet leader mikhail gorbachev has pressed hard for a change in east germany 's rigid stance . two reform-minded party leaders favored by moscow as possible successors to mr. honecker , dresden party secretary hans modrow and politburo member guenter schabowski , were passed over . if mr. krenz sticks to rigid policies the pressure from the soviet union could intensify . in moscow , mr. gorbachev sent mr. krenz a congratulatory telegram that appeared to urge the new leadership to heed growing calls for change . according to the soviet news agency tass , `` gorbachev expressed the conviction that the leadership of the socialist unity party of -lcb- east -rcb- germany , being sensitive to the demands of the time , ... will find solutions to complicated problems 0 the gdr -lcb- german democratic republic -rcb- encountered . '' a force of younger pro-gorbachev members in the east german bureaucracy has for some time been pushing for relaxation within their country . the older generation has been torn between a fear of tampering with the status quo and a fear of what might happen if they did n't . from the perspective of east germany 's old guard , reforms that smack of capitalism and western-style democracy could eliminate their country 's reason for being . unlike the other nations of the bloc , east germany is a creature of the cold war . erasing the differences still dividing europe , and the vast international reordering 0 that implies , wo n't endanger the statehood of a poland or a hungary . but it could ultimately lead to german reunification and the disappearance of east germany from the map . which is what the old guard fears . `` i 'm sure 0 they 'll formulate a reform that will be a recipe for the gdr 's future as a separately identifiable state , '' says michael simmons , a british journalist whose book on east germany , entitled `` the unloved country , '' was published this month . up to now , that recipe has consisted of a dogged effort by former leader walter ulbricht to establish the country 's international legitimacy , followed by mr. honecker 's campaign to build the east bloc 's only successful stalinist economy into a consumer paradise . neither man achieved perfection . early in 1987 , mr. honecker and his team stopped paying thin compliments to mr. gorbachev and joined with romania in rejecting any necessity for adjustments in their systems . the less-self-confident czechoslovaks and bulgarians , in contrast , declared their intentions to reform , while doing nothing concrete about it . the east german media soon began presenting mr. gorbachev 's speeches only as sketchy summaries , and giving space to his opponents . by late 1988 , they were banning soviet publications . the country abandoned its former devotion to socialist unity and took to insisting instead that each country in the bloc ought to travel its own road . mr. honecker spoke of `` generally valid objective laws of socialism '' and left no room for debate . with this year 's dislocations in china and the soviet union , and the drive to democracy in poland and hungary , the east german leadership grew still more defensive . politburo member joachim herrman confessed to a `` grave concern '' over hungarian democracy . `` under the banner that proclaims the ` renewal of socialism , ' '' he said , `` forces are at work that are striving to eliminate socialism . '' some loyal voices , in and out of the east german communist party , saw the nation 's unrest coming . the first signs were economic . despite heavily subsidized consumer industries , east germans have for years watched the west pull farther out ahead . in 1988 , for the first time , economic growth came to a dead stop . gingerly , some economists began to blame central planning . some writers in theoretical journals even raised the notion of introducing democracy , at least in the workplace . by summer , an independent reform movement was saying out loud what it had only whispered before . but they are stalwart socialists . their proclaimed purpose is to cleanse east germany of its stalinist muck , not to merge with the west . one of their pastors has envisioned a `` new utopia '' of `` creative socialism . '' meanwhile , the man 0 mr. krenz replaces has left an indelible mark on east german society . imprisoned by the nazis during world war ii for his political beliefs , mr. honecker typified the postwar generation of committed communist leaders in eastern europe who took their cues from moscow . he was a `` socialist warrior '' who felt rankled by west germany 's enormous postwar prosperity and the bonn government 's steadfast refusal to recognize the legitimacy of his state . finally , during his first and only state visit to bonn two years ago , he won some measure of the recognition 0 he had long sought . but ultimately he was undone by forces unleashed by his own comrade , mr. gorbachev . mr. honecker 's removal `` was bound to happen , '' says one aide to chancellor kohl . `` it was only a matter of time . '' the european community commission increased its forecast for economic growth in the ec in 1989 to 3.5 % , slightly higher than its june projection of 3.25 % . in its annual economic report for 1989-1990 , the commission also projected 1990 gross domestic product growth for the 12 ec members at 3 % . ec inflation was seen at 4.8 % in 1989 , higher than 1988 's 3.6 % price rise . however , inflation for 1990 was seen slowing to 4.5 % . leading ec growth forecasts in 1989 was ireland , seen growing 5 % at constant prices . slower growth countries included greece , at 2.5 % , the u.k. , at 2.25 % , and denmark , at 1.75 % . inflation is expected to be highest in greece , where it is projected at 14.25 % , and portugal , at 13 % . at the other end of the spectrum , west german inflation was forecast at 3 % in 1989 and 2.75 % in 1990 . nestle korea ltd. opened a coffee and non-dairy-creamer plant in chongju , south korea . an official at nestle korea , a 50-50 joint venture between nestle s.a. and the doosan group , said 0 the new facility will manufacture all types of soluble , roasted and ground coffee , coffee mix and nondairy coffee creamer . the south korean coffee market , consisting mostly of instant coffee , was estimated at about 100 billion won -lrb- $ 150.7 million -rrb- last year . brands made by the kraft general foods unit of philip morris cos. had about 95 % of the market share . nestle currently has only about a 2 % share with its taster 's choice coffee . poland plans to start negotiations soon on purchasing natural gas from iran , the official islamic republic news agency reported 0 . the agency said 0 polish prime minister tadeusz mazowiecki told iranian deputy foreign minister mahmoud vaezi of poland 's willingess to purchase the gas during mr. vaezi 's current visit to warsaw . the agency did n't mention possible quantities and did n't say how the gas would be delivered . a chinese official harshly criticized plans to close a british naval base in downtown hong kong . hong kong officials announced last week that the base will be relocated to a small island to allow downtown redevelopment . but beijing wants to use the base for the people 's liberation army after 1997 , when the territory returns to chinese sovereignty . ke zaishuo , head of china 's delegation to a chinese-british liaison committee on hong kong , accused britain of trying to impose a fait accompli and said , `` this is something 0 we can not accept . '' the israeli and soviet national airlines have reached preliminary agreement for launching the first direct flights between tel aviv and moscow , a spokesman for the israeli airline , el al , said 0 . el al director rafi har-lev and top officials of the soviet union 's aeroflot negotiated a preliminary pact in moscow this week , the spokesman said 0 . he added that concluding the deal requires approval by the governments of both countries , which have never had direct air links . the chairman and a director of one of the republic of singapore 's leading property companies , city development ltd. , or cdl , were charged yesterday with criminal breach of trust of some 800,000 singapore dollars -lrb- about us$ 409,000 -rrb- . kwek hong png , chairman of cdl , and director quek leng chye were arrested by the republic 's corrupt practices investigation bureau tuesday night . in addition to abetting in the alleged criminal breach of trust , kwek hong png was also charged with dishonestly receiving s$ 500,000 that had been stolen . both men were charged in a subordinate court and released on bail of s$ 1 million . the charges are the culmination of weeks of rumors concerning cdl that have depressed the company 's share price and to a lesser extent the shares of all companies owned by cdl 's controlling quek family , brokers in singapore say 0 . the queks control the hong leong group , which has widespread interests in manufacturing , property and finance in both malaysia and singapore . news of the arrest and charging of the two men helped to push prices on the singapore stock market sharply lower in early trading yesterday , but brokers said that the market and cdl shares recovered once it became apparent 0 the charges were limited to the two men personally . one of the two british companies still making hard toilet paper stopped production of it . british tissues decided to do away with its hard paper after a major customer , british rail , switched to softer tissues for train bathrooms ... . peasants in inner mongolia have partly dismantled a 20-mile section of china 's famed great wall , the official people 's daily said 0 . the paper said 0 the bricks were used to build homes and furnaces and , as a result , the wall `` is in terrible shape .