the economy 's temperature will be taken from several vantage points this week , with readings on trade , output , housing and inflation . the most troublesome report may be the august merchandise trade deficit due out tomorrow . the trade gap is expected to widen to about $ 9 billion from july 's $ 7.6 billion , according to a survey by mms international , a unit of mcgraw-hill inc. , new york . thursday 's report on the september consumer price index is expected to rise , although not as sharply as the 0.9 % gain reported friday in the producer price index . that gain was being cited as a reason 0 the stock market was down early in friday 's session , before it got started on its reckless 190-point plunge . economists are divided as to how much manufacturing strength they expect to see in september reports on industrial production and capacity utilization , also due tomorrow . meanwhile , september housing starts , due wednesday , are thought to have inched upward . `` there 's a possibility of a surprise '' in the trade report , said 0 michael englund , director of research at mms . a widening of the deficit , if it were combined with a stubbornly strong dollar , would exacerbate trade problems -- but the dollar weakened friday as stocks plummeted . in any event , mr. englund and many others say that the easy gains in narrowing the trade gap have already been made . `` trade is definitely going to be more politically sensitive over the next six or seven months as improvement begins to slow , '' he said . exports are thought to have risen strongly in august , but probably not enough to offset the jump in imports , economists said . views on manufacturing strength are split between economists who read september 's low level of factory job growth as a sign of a slowdown and those who use the somewhat more comforting total employment figures in their calculations . the wide range of estimates for the industrial output number underscores the differences : the forecasts run from a drop of 0.5 % to an increase of 0.4 % , according to mms . a rebound in energy prices , which helped push up the producer price index , is expected to do the same in the consumer price report . the consensus view expects a 0.4 % increase in the september cpi after a flat reading in august . robert h. chandross , an economist for lloyd 's bank in new york , is among those expecting a more moderate gain in the cpi than in prices at the producer level . `` auto prices had a big effect in the ppi , and at the cpi level they wo n't , '' he said . food prices are expected to be unchanged , but energy costs jumped as much as 4 % , said 0 gary ciminero , economist at fleet\/norstar financial group . he also says 0 he thinks 0 `` core inflation , '' which excludes the volatile food and energy prices , was strong last month . he expects a gain of as much as 0.5 % in core inflation after a summer of far smaller increases . housing starts are expected to quicken a bit from august 's annual pace of 1,350,000 units . economists say 0 an august rebound in permits for multifamily units signaled an increase in september starts , though activity remains fairly modest by historical standards .