the oil and auto industries , united in their dislike of president bush 's proposal for cars that run on alternative fuels , announced a joint research program that could turn up a cleaner-burning gasoline . officials of the big three auto makers and 14 petroleum companies said 0 they are setting out to find the most cost-effective fuel for reducing cities ' air-pollution problems , with no bias toward any fuel in particular . however , their search notably wo n't include natural gas or pure methanol -- the two front-running alternative fuels -- in tests 0 to be completed by next summer . instead , the tests will focus heavily on new blends of gasoline , which are still undeveloped but which the petroleum industry has been touting as a solution for automobile pollution that is choking urban areas . environmentalists criticized the program as merely a public-relations attempt to head off a white house proposal to require a million cars a year that run on cleaner-burning fuels by 1997 . while major oil companies have been experimenting with cleaner-burning gasoline blends for years , only atlantic richfield co. is now marketing a lower-emission gasoline for older cars currently running on leaded fuel . the initial $ 11 million research program will conduct the most extensive testing to date of reformulated gasolines , said 0 joe colucci , head of fuels and lubricants at general motors corp. research laboratories . it will compare 21 different blends of gasolines with three mixtures of up to 85 % methanol . a second phase of research , which is still being planned , will test reformulated gasolines on newer engine technologies now being developed for use in 1992 or 1993 cars . there was no cost estimate for the second phase . `` the whole idea here is 0 the automobile and oil companies have joint customers , '' said keith mchenry , a senior vice president of technology at amoco corp . `` and we are looking for the most cost-effective way 0 to clean up the air . '' but david hawkins , an environmental lawyer with the natural resources defense council , said 0 the research appears merely to be a way 0 to promote reformulated gasoline . oil and auto companies supported a move on capitol hill last week to gut mr. bush 's plans to require auto makers to begin selling alternative-fueled cars by 1995 . instead , a house subcommittee adopted a clean-fuels program that specifically mentions reformulated gasoline as an alternative . the bush administration has said 0 it will try to resurrect its plan when the house energy and commerce committee takes up a comprehensive clean-air bill .