shevardnadze admitted that moscow violated the 1972 abm treaty . in a foreign-policy address before the soviet legislature , the foreign minister conceded that the radar station in krasnoyarsk breached the superpower anti-ballistic missile treaty and said 0 it would be dismantled . shevardnadze said 0 it took gorbachev 's government four years to determine that the station 's location in siberia violated the accord , as western arms-control officials have long contended . he also denounced moscow 's nine-year involvement in the war in afghanistan , saying 0 it involved `` gross violations of ... civil norms and ethics . '' secretary of state baker , in his first major arms-control speech , called for a new military relationship with moscow to reduce `` first strike '' nuclear arms . bay area commuters battled earthquake-related transportation snarls . travelers crowded into subways , sat in traffic jams on major freeways or waited for buses in the rain , but the massive gridlock anticipated by officials in the san francisco bay area never materialized . as the death toll from last week 's temblor climbed to 61 , the condition of freeway survivor buck helm , who spent four days trapped under rubble , improved , hospital officials said 0 . rescue crews , however , gave up hope that others would be found alive under the collapsed roadway . the house appropriations committee approved a $ 2.85 billion aid package for the quake region , less than the $ 3.8 billion sought by california officials . hungary declared itself a democracy and for the first time openly commemorated the anniversary of the 1956 anti-stalinist uprising that was crushed by the soviet union . a crowd estimated at 100,000 held a torch-lit march through budapest as acting president szuros delivered a nationally televised address rejecting communist dominance . about 200,000 east germans marched in leipzig and thousands more staged protests in three other cities in a fresh challenge to the communist leadership to introduce democratic freedoms . in an east berlin suburb , meanwhile , employees at an electronics plant formed an independent trade union called reform , a worker spokesman said 0 . the space shuttle atlantis landed at a desert air strip at edwards air force base , calif. , ending a five-day mission that dispatched the jupiter-bound galileo space probe . the five astronauts returned to earth about three hours early because high winds had been predicted at the landing site . fog shrouded the base before touchdown . explosions shook a phillips petroleum co. plastics plant near pasadena , texas , hurling debris and causing a fire visible from 10 miles away . more than 100 people were injured , and a number of workers were missing . parts of the houston ship channel were closed . the white house said 0 bush is conferring with leaders of the senate intelligence committee to ease differences over guidelines for cia agents . the statement came after officials said 0 bush complained at a private meeting last week that a strict interpretation of a policy requires the u.s. to notify foreign dictators of certain coup plots . lebanon 's gen. aoun placed christian military forces on alert in case of renewed fighting with syrian-backed moslems after lebanon 's two main shiite militias rejected an arab-sponsored peace accord . the plan , approved by lawmakers and rejected sunday by aoun , includes political changes aimed at ending the 14-year-old civil war . nato defense ministers are expected to call for a reduction in nuclear forces in europe when the alliance 's nuclear planning group convenes a two-day session today in portugal . the ministers are to reshape nato 's defenses in western europe amid fast-paced changes in the soviet bloc . iran 's president rafsanjani offered to help gain freedom for western hostages in lebanon , but said 0 the assistance was contingent on u.s. aid in resolving the cases of three iranians kidnapped in lebanon in 1982 or the release of frozen iranian assets . washington rejected the bid , saying 0 the hostages were n't linked to other issues . plo leader arafat asked egypt to seek clarifications from the u.s. on secretary of state baker 's plan for mideast peace talks , an aide to egyptian president mubarak said 0 . the official stressed that the plo has n't rejected the five-point formula . commonwealth leaders turned to issues ranging from drugs to the world economy after zimbabwe 's president mugabe called thatcher 's views on south africa `` despicable . '' at a meeting in malaysia , australia and canada also assailed the british prime minister for criticizing the 49-nation group 's call for pretoria to ease apartheid .