merksamer jewelers inc. , a fast-growing jewelry store chain , filed for chapter 11 bankruptcy-law protection from creditors , apparently to speed a management buy-out of the chain . the filing , made yesterday in u.s. bankruptcy court here , follows an agreement by l.j. hooker corp. , merksamer 's owner , to sell the chain to management for an undisclosed price . ge capital corp. , a financial services subsidiary of general electric co. , is providing merksamer management with $ 15 million in financing . l.j. hooker , based in atlanta , filed for chapter 11 protection in august and has also announced its intention to sell its b. altman & co. department store chain . l.j. hooker is owned by hooker corp. , sydney , australia , which itself is currently being managed by a court-appointed provisional liquidator . l.j. hooker 's planned sale of merksamer is subject to approval by judge tina brozman of u.s. bankruptcy court . rumors to the effect that the merksamer chain would file for chapter 11 arose last week in the jewelry industry . at that time , sam merksamer , president of the chain , angrily denied that his company was about to file . mr. merksamer is leading the buy-out . according to executives close to the situation , merksamer filed for chapter 11 to speed the sale of the chain . one executive said 0 an accord signed by the unsecured creditors of l.j. hooker corp. had frozen in place all of l.j. hooker 's assets . the merksamer bankruptcy-law filing appears to supersede that agreement . `` by filing for chapter 11 , the merksamer chain will only need approval from a bankruptcy judge for the sale , not the hundreds of unsecured creditors , '' said this executive . `` the cash from the sale will go to l.j. hooker , but the company itself will belong to sam merksamer . '' mr. merksamer and sanford sigoloff , chief executive of l.j. hooker , were unavailable for comment . in a statement , mr. merksamer described the filing as a `` legal technicality , '' but also said that `` our inability to obtain trade credit , combined with a need to ensure that our stores were properly stocked for the christmas season , necessitated our filing chapter 11 . '' the jewelry chain , which is based in sacramento , calif. , had revenue of $ 62 million and operating profit of $ 2.5 million for the year ended june 30 .