these are the last words 0 abbie hoffman ever uttered , more or less , before he killed himself . and you are there , sort of : abbie : `` i 'm ok , jack . i 'm ok . '' -lrb- listening -rrb- `` yeah . i 'm out of bed . i got my feet on the floor . yeah . two feet . i 'll see you wednesday ? ... thursday . '' he listens impassively . abbie -lrb- cont'd. -rrb- : `` i 'll always be with you , jack . do n't worry . '' abbie lies back and leaves the frame empty . of course that was n't the actual conversation 0 the late anti-war activist , protest leader and founder of the yippies ever had with his brother . it 's a script pieced together from interviews by cbs news for a re-enactment , a dramatic rendering by an actor of mr. hoffman 's ultimately unsuccessful struggle with depression . the segment is soon to be broadcast on the cbs news series `` saturday night with connie chung , '' thus further blurring the distinction between fiction and reality in tv news . it is the new journalism come to television . ms. chung 's program is just one of several network shows -lrb- and many more in syndication -rrb- that rely on the controversial technique of reconstructing events , using actors who are supposed to resemble real people , living and dead . ms. chung 's , however , is said to be the only network news program in history 0 to employ casting directors . abbie hoffman in this case is to be played by hollywood actor paul lieber , who is n't new to the character . he was mr. hoffman in a 1979 los angeles production of a play called `` the chicago conspiracy trial . '' television news , of course , has always been part show-biz . broadcasters have a healthy appreciation of the role 0 entertainment values play in captivating an audience . but , as cbs broadcast group president howard stringer puts it , the network now needs to `` broaden the horizons of nonfiction television , and that includes some experimentation . '' since its premiere sept. 16 , the show on which ms. chung appears has used an actor to portray the rev. vernon johns , a civil-rights leader , and one to play a teenage drug dealer . it has depicted the bombing of pan am flight 103 over the scottish town of lockerbie . on oct. 21 , it did a rendition of the kidnapping and imprisonment of associated press correspondent terry anderson , who was abducted in march 1985 and is believed to be held in lebanon . the production had actors playing mr. anderson and former hostages david jacobsen , the rev. benjamin weir and father lawrence jenco . abc news has similarly branched out into entertainment gimmickry . `` prime time live , '' a new show this season featuring sam donaldson and diane sawyer , has a studio audience that applauds and that one night -lrb- to the embarrassment of the network -rrb- waved at the camera like the crowd on `` let 's make a deal . '' -lrb- abc stops short of using an `` applause '' sign and a comic to warm up the audience . the stars do that themselves . -rrb- nbc news has produced three episodes of an occasional series produced by sid feders called `` yesterday , today and tomorrow , '' starring maria shriver , chuck scarborough and mary alice williams , that also gives work to actors . call it a fad . or call it the wave of the future . nbc 's re-creations are produced by cosgrove-meurer productions , which also makes the successful prime-time nbc entertainment series `` unsolved mysteries . '' the marriage of news and theater , if not exactly inevitable , has been consummated nonetheless . news programs , particularly if they score well in the ratings , appeal to the networks ' cost-conscious corporate parents because they are so much less expensive to produce than an entertainment show is -- somewhere between $ 400,000 and $ 500,000 for a one-hour program . entertainment shows tend to cost twice that . re-enactments have been used successfully for several seasons on such syndicated `` tabloid tv '' shows as `` a current affair , '' which is produced by the fox broadcasting co. unit of rupert murdoch 's news corp . that show , whose host is ms. chung 's husband , maury povich , has a particular penchant for grisly murders and stories having to do with sex -- the robert chambers murder case , the rob lowe tapes , what have you . gerald stone , the executive producer of `` a current affair , '' says , `` we have opened eyes to being a little less conservative and more imaginative in how to present the news . '' nowhere have eyes been opened wider than at cbs news . at 555 w. 57th st. in manhattan , one floor below the offices of `` 60 minutes , '' the most successful prime-time news program ever , actors wait in the reception area to audition for `` saturday night with connie chung . '' cbs news sends scripts to agents , who pass them along to clients . the network deals a lot with unknowns , including scott wentworth , who portrayed mr. anderson , and bill alton as father jenco , but the network has some big names 0 to contend with , too . james earl jones is cast to play the rev. mr. johns . ned beatty may portray former california gov. pat brown in a forthcoming epsiode on caryl chessman , the last man 0 to be executed in california , in 1960 . `` saturday night '' has cast actors to appear in future stories ranging from the abortion rights of teen-agers to a nov. 4 segment on a man named willie bosket , who calls himself a `` monster '' and is reputed to be the toughest prisoner in new york . cbs news , which as recently as two years ago fired hundreds of its employees in budget cutbacks , now hires featured actors beginning at $ 2,700 a week . that is n't much compared with what bill cosby makes , or even connie chung for that matter -lrb- who is paid $ 1.6 million a year and who recently did a guest shot of her own on the sitcom `` murphy brown '' -rrb- . but the money is n't peanuts either , particularly for a news program . cbs news is also re-enacting the 1979 three mile island nuclear accident in middletown , pa. , with something less than a cast of thousands . it is combing the town of 10,000 for about 200 extras . on oct. 20 , the town 's mayor , robert reid , made an announcement on behalf of cbs during half-time at the middletown high school football game asking for volunteers . `` there was a roll of laughter through the stands , '' says joe sukle , the editor of the weekly press and journal in middletown . `` they 're filming right now at the bank down the street , and they want shots of people getting out of cars and kids on skateboards . they are approaching everyone on the street and asking if they want to be in a docudrama . '' mr. sukle says 0 he would n't dream of participating himself : `` no way . i think 0 re-enactments stink . '' though a re-enactment may have the flavor , hollywood on the hudson it is n't . some producers seem tentative about the technique , squeamish even . so the results , while not news , are n't exactly theater either , at least not good theater . and some people do think that acting out scripts is n't worthy of cbs news , which once lent prestige to the network and set standards for the industry . in his review of `` saturday night with connie chung , '' tom shales , the tv critic of the washington post and generally an admirer of cbs , wrote that while the show is `` impressive , ... one has to wonder if this is the proper direction 0 for a network news division to take . '' re-creating events has , in general , upset news traditionalists , including former cbs news president richard s. salant and former nbc news president reuven frank , former cbs news anchorman walter cronkite and the new dean of the columbia university graduate school of journalism , joan konner . says she : `` once you add dramatizations , it 's no longer news , it 's drama , and that has no place on a network news broadcast ... . they should never be on . never . '' criticism of the abbie hoffman segment is particularly scathing among people who knew and loved the man . that includes his companion of 15 years , johanna lawrenson , as well as his former wife , anita . both women say 0 they also find it distasteful that cbs news is apparently concentrating on mr. hoffman 's problems as a manic-depressive . `` this is dangerous and misrepresents abbie 's life , '' says ms. lawrenson , who has had an advance look at the 36-page script . `` it 's a sensational piece about someone who is not here to defend himself . '' mrs. hoffman says that dramatization `` makes the truth flexible . it takes one person 's account and gives it authenticity . '' cbs news interviewed jack hoffman and his sister , phyllis , as well as mr. hoffman 's landlord in solebury township , pa . also jonathan silvers , who collaborated with mr. hoffman on two books . mr. silvers says , `` i wanted to be interviewed to get abbie 's story out , and maybe talking about the illness will do some good . '' the executive producer of `` saturday night with connie chung , '' andrew lack , declines to discuss re-creactions as a practice or his show , in particular . `` i do n't talk about my work , '' he says . the president of cbs news , david w. burke , did n't return numerous telephone calls . one person close to the process says 0 it would not be in the best interest of cbs news to comment on a `` work in progress , '' such as the hoffman re-creation , but says 0 cbs news is `` aware '' of the concerns of ms. lawrenson and mr. hoffman 's former wife . neither woman was invited by cbs news to participate in a round-table discussion about mr. hoffman that is to follow the re-enactment . mr. lieber , the actor who plays mr. hoffman , says 0 he was concerned at first that the script would `` misrepresent an astute political mind , one that i admired , '' but that his concerns were allayed . the producers , he says 0 , did a good job of depicting someone `` who had done so much , but who was also a manic-depressive .