international business machines corp. unveiled a broad strategy 0 to tackle the biggest problem that manufacturers face when computerizing their operations : most machines ca n't talk to each other . the company unveiled more than 50 products , mostly software , that are designed to integrate the three areas of a manufacturing operation -- the plant floor , design operations and production planning . the aim , ultimately , is to increase the flow of information into a manufacturer 's main computer network for use in business planning , marketing and other operations . manufacturers have already spent so heavily on automation that they are one of the computer industry 's leading revenue sources . but many manufacturers find that communication between different computers has been rendered nearly impossible by the babel of computer languages used by different machines , including robots and machine tools . ibm 's announcement , which was expected and will formally be made to customers today , also marks an attempt to gain credibility on the plant floor , where digital equipment corp. has long dominated and where hewlett-packard co. has recently gained market share . consultants have said that it will take a while for all the pieces of the ibm strategy to fall into place , even though the specific products 0 ibm unveiled will generally be available by the end of the first quarter . sam albert , a consultant in scarsdale , n.y. , said that in the past ibm has developed broad software strategies only for problems that crossed industry lines . he said 0 he believes 0 ibm 's decision to invest this sort of effort into a single industry showed that it was getting serious about understanding customers ' problems and was n't just selling technology . he said 0 he expects ibm to unveil similar strategies for other industries in coming months . ibm 's push is also unusual in its approach to marketing . rather than just send out marketing people to knock on customers ' doors , ibm is making several hundred of its own manufacturing people available to discuss specific needs . ibm 's manufacturing staff also will be able to provide software that ibm has developed internally and will be able to form teams with a customer 0 to jointly solve manufacturing problems . ibm can obviously bring its expertise to bear on problems related to computer manufacturing , but it could also help customers on software 0 to deal with such things as changes in engineering documents . `` we may not have every manufacturing problem , but we have most , '' said george conrades , ibm 's top marketing official .