move over , pornographic phone services : a legal service with a `` 900 '' number has been launched in california . a newport beach law firm started the pay-as-you-go legal service , called telelawyer , using mci communication corp. 's toll-tele-phone service . cane & associates touts its $ 2-a-minute service as the `` cheapest legal hour 0 you 'll ever find . '' though the service is available only in california , telelawyer founder michael cane says 0 he plans to franchise it in other states . he says 0 his aim is to reach people who are bedridden , have no access to transportation , ca n't find a lawyer 0 to take their case or simply ca n't afford lawyers ' consultation fees . mr. cane stresses that he is n't using the telephone to lure clients to his doorstep . `` we will only deal with clients on the phone , '' he says . `` we have no in-office business . '' telelawyer is apparently the only telephone service that offers the telephone equivalent of an office visit . local bar associations in some states have numbers that provide free tape-recorded messages explaining certain areas of the law . there also are `` 800 '' hotlines which refer people to lawyers , usually personal-injury specialists , for in-office consultation . when a caller reaches telelawyer by dialing 900-telelaw , a receptionist refers the call to one of six attorneys . in an effort to determine whether a caller has reason 0 to sue , cane lawyers review documents and perform research , if necessary , with the help of three law clerks and several support staffers . there is no charge for research -- only for time on the phone . if the matter requires further legal work or litigation , mr. cane says , his lawyers may refer the client to a law firm . but he says 0 cane & associates does n't receive referral fees . so far , says mr. cane , most calls have involved landlord-tenant problems , tax problems , divorce , and probate questions . the firm is getting about 50 calls a day , and the average call lasts about 15 minutes . out of the $ 2 charge , the law firm pockets about $ 1.55 . jury convicts congressman in connection with wedtech corp. scandal . a federal court jury in new york found u.s. rep. robert garcia -lrb- d. , n.y . -rrb- and his wife , jane lee garcia , guilty of extorting $ 76,000 from wedtech in return for official acts by the congressman . the jury also convicted them of extortion in obtaining a $ 20,000 , interest-free loan from a wedtech officer . the jury found them guilty of conspiracy in obtaining the payments , some of which were disguised as fees for consulting services from mrs. garcia . wedtech , which became embroiled in political-corruption cases that eventually led to its demise , formerly was a minority-owned south bronx , n.y. , defense contractor . edward j.m. little , one of the assistant u.s. attorneys who prosecuted the case , said 0 the garcia trial `` is the last of the wedtech prosecutions . '' mr. little said 0 more than 20 people have been convicted in the wedtech cases , including former u.s. rep. mario biaggi -lrb- d. , n.y . -rrb- . lawyers for the garcias said 0 they plan to appeal . mr. garcia , who represents new york 's 18th congressional district , which includes the bronx , said 0 he has n't decided whether he will resign . `` in the next few weeks , i will be consulting with my political advisers and with the democratic leaders about the best way of preserving the interests of my constituents , '' said 0 mr. garcia , 56 years old . mrs. garcia , 49 , formerly was a member of mr. garcia 's congressional staff . the garcias were cleared of four other felony counts , involving the receipt of bribes and gratuities . u.s. judge leonard b. sand set the garcias ' sentencing for jan. 5 . five shea & gould partners are leaving to form a new firm . the new firm , hutton ingram yuzek gainen carroll & bertolotti , will be based in new york . the five partners who resigned from shea & gould late last week are tom hutton , sam ingram , dean yuzek , daniel carroll and ernest bertolotti . they will be joined by larry gainen , who resigned from the firm of lepatner , gainen & block . howard rubenstein , a new york publicist who represents shea & gould , said , `` shea & gould understands 0 they 're leaving because they wanted a different environment -- a smaller firm 0 they would be principals of . '' mr. rubenstein said 0 the five , who were n't on shea & gould 's management committee , `` are leaving on good terms . '' he said 0 shea & gould held a number of discussions with the five partners during the past few weeks to get them to stay but that the five were firmly committed to running their own firm . hutton ingram will have a general corporate , securities , real-estate and litigation practice , and a substantial practice serving the professional-design community . disciplinary proceedings against lawyers open to public in illinois . while investigations into lawyer misconduct will remain secret , the public will be notified once a formal complaint is filed against an attorney . the actual disciplinary hearings will be public . in addition , illinois attorneys will lose the right to sue clients who file malicious complaints against them . non-lawyers will be added to the inquiry panels that look into allegations of misconduct . illinois joins 36 other states that allow public participation in attorney-disciplinary proceedings and 32 states that open disciplinary hearings to the public , according to the american bar association . one vocal critic of the changes , chicago lawyer warren lupel , says 0 non-lawyers should n't be on the inquiry panels because they are unlikely to appreciate the nuances of attorney-client relationships . in addition , he says 0 , publishing the names of lawyers who are facing charges unnecessarily subjects them to public derogation . nevertheless , mr. lupel anticipates no legal action to reverse the illinois supreme court 's decision to institute the changes . `` there 's no constitutional right involved in the rule change , '' he says . `` you do n't have a right to practice . you only have a privilege to practice . '' drexel burnham lambert inc. agreed to pay a $ 50,000 fine to delaware , the 26th state 0 to settle with drexel in the wake of the firm 's guilty plea to federal insider-trading charges . drexel does n't have a delaware office , but the new york firm has been negotiating settlements that would allow it to operate freely nationwide despite its record as an admitted felon . the firm has said 0 it expects to pay $ 11.5 million overall to settle with states . drexel pleaded guilty in september to six felony counts of securities and mail fraud ; it also made a $ 650 million civil settlement with the securities and exchange commission .