a proposed conflict-of-interest policy for federally funded biomedical researchers may thwart many high-technology new ventures , say 0 financiers , researchers and university administrators . the national institutes of health policy would require researchers to cut financial ties with health-care businesses -- or lose their government money . among other concerns , the agency says 0 researchers with business ties are more likely to falsify findings in order to tout new drugs . as ties between academia and venture capital have blossomed in recent years , governmental fear of abuse has risen . but the guidelines could `` make it impossible to commercialize research , '' says 0 kenneth smith , associate provost and vice president for research at massachusetts institute of technology . the nih is asking grant recipients and others for comments on the proposed guidelines until dec. 15 . after that , it will make a final decision on the policy . the guidelines could foil future arrangements similar to the deal behind lithox inc. , a salem , mass. , start-up , says 0 robert daly , a managing partner of ta associates , a venture-capital firm . with $ 2.3 million , he and other investors launched lithox last year to market a gallstone cure being developed by researchers of the university of california at san diego . the researchers , who are being financed by the lithox funds , will receive a royalty , or percentage of sales , if their research yields a commercial product . but because the university of california , like many other universities , shares its royalties with researchers , it may disqualify itself from federal funds under the proposed guidelines , mr. daly says 0 . the high-tech industry is full of the kind of arrangement that the new guidelines would affect . for instance , commonwealth bioventures inc. , a venture-capital concern , last month invested $ 600,000 to launch amira inc. , a worcester , mass. , concern that will produce pharmaceuticals . scientists rima kaddurah-daouk and paul schimmel conducted the initial research at the massachusetts institute of technology . while ms. kaddurah-daouk left mit to head amira , prof. schimmel will continue to work at mit , serve on amira 's board and own a small equity stake in the company . the amira transaction is typical of the way 0 venture-capital firms are approaching the task of commercializing biotechnology research . while universities develop the basic research , `` venture capitalists are the ones best positioned to finance its commercialization , '' says gloria w. doubleday of commonwealth . `` this is the best way 0 to transfer technology straight off the campuses of universities . '' but the new guidelines could prevent scientists like prof. schimmel from being involved with start-ups such as amira , venture capitalists point out 0 . and if that happens , the entire process of transferring technology to the marketplace could be harmed , they say 0 . the stakes in the controversy are large . last year , venture capitalists spent an estimated $ 600 million to finance start-up companies in medical and biotechnology businesses , according to the national venture capital association , a trade group . many of the deals involved transactions in which scientific institutions or researchers agreed to commercialize their work in return for an equity stake or royalties . in many of these deals , `` venture capitalists had the inside track , '' says 0 lawrence bock of avalon ventures , la jolla , calif . investors were willing to gamble on new technologies because `` we had exclusive rights to those technologies , '' he adds 0 . but under the proposed guidelines , all federally funded research will have to be reported publicly so that anyone can capitalize on the work . `` without the exclusivity , most venture capitalists wo n't have the incentive to invest in such deals , '' mr. bock says . last year , for example , avalon and others invested $ 14 million in athena neurosciences inc. , south san francisco , calif. , to license and develop technology for delivery of drugs to the brain . but before athena was able to get an exclusive license to the technology , the federal register published most of the details , `` giving all of the company 's potential competitors a chance to exploit it , '' mr. bock says 0 . athena eventually acquired exclusive rights to the technology and currently is developing it . but , says mr. bock , `` it was a close call . '' the proposed guidelines could also delay commercialization -- and force small companies to waste scarce capital , entrepreneurs say 0 . if start-ups ca n't have early access to research being conducted at institutions , `` we have to replicate it ourselves or do without the research , '' says 0 ruth emyanitoff , manager of business development at applied biotechnology inc. , a cambridge , mass. , concern . duplicating research is both costly and time-consuming for a start-up , ms. emyanitoff says 0 . for its part , nih insists that its guidelines `` should not stifle research creativity or technology transfer from the research laboratory to commercial use . '' universities such as harvard and mit should be able to develop a way 0 to act as brokers for the individual scientists , says 0 katherine bick , who oversees the huge nih grants program as its deputy director for extramural research . nih staff members believe 0 the guidelines are essential to prevent the escalation of problems that have already begun to surface in scientific ventures . not long ago , scientists holding stock in spectra pharmaceutical services inc. were accused of falsifying research to boost the stock . many officials are also concerned about companies getting a `` free ride '' on government-sponsored research . a congressional subcommitee has been investigating the potential abuse from researchers holding stock in companies exploiting their research . among other provisions , the nih guidelines would prohibit researchers and members of their immediate families from holding stock in any company that is affected by the outcome of their research . ms. bick , the nih administrator , says 0 the business and scientific community is overreacting to what the agency merely meant to be `` ideas for discussion . '' the predictions of doom are `` premature , '' she says 0 . but when agencies like the nih circulate guidelines , they 've often already formulated policy , veteran scientists say 0 . indeed , institutions already are taking note . on sept. 14 , harvard began circulating a conflict-of-interest policy statement that , in effect , would follow the nih guidelines faithfully . the university of california at san francisco is also circulating a memo among its scientific faculty that will restrict contact with the world of business . in many other institutions , scientists are shunning contacts with venture investors until the nih policy is settled . says mr. daly , the venture capitalist : `` it does n't matter whether they call it guidelines or policy . the damage is already done .