nrm energy co. said 0 it filed materials with the securities and exchange commission calling for it to restructure into a corporation from a limited partnership . the partnership said 0 it is proposing the change largely because the provisions of its senior notes restrict it from making distributions on its units outstanding . nrm suspended its common distribution in june 1988 and the distribution on its $ 2 cumulative convertible acquisition preferred units in september . however , unpaid distributions on the acquisition preferred are cumulative and would total $ 23 million a year , hurting nrm 's financial flexibility and its ability to raise capital , nrm said 0 . in following several other oil and gas partnerships that have made the conversion to a corporation in the last year , nrm also noted that tax advantages for partnerships have diminished under new tax laws and said 0 it would save $ 2 million a year in administrative costs from the change . under the plan , nrm said 0 holders of its common units will receive one share of new common stock in edisto resources corp. for every 14.97 common units owned . holders of nrm 's $ 2 cumulative convertible acquisition preferred units will receive one new common share in edisto for every 1.342 units 0 they own . after the transaction , current common unitholders will own about 21.3 % of edisto , current acquisition preferred holders will own 72.3 % , and current stockholders of edisto will own about 6.4 % , about the same stake as edisto owns now in nrm . edisto currently is the general partner of nrm . as the largest holder of acquisition preferred units , mesa limited partnership would own about 28 % of edisto after the transaction . as part of the transaction , edisto agreed to give mesa , an amarillo , texas , oil and gas partnership managed by t. boone pickens jr. , a seat on its board . nrm said 0 its $ 2.60 senior cumulative convertible preferred units will be converted into an equal number of shares of $ 2.60 senior cumulative convertible preferred stock of edisto . the transaction is subject to approval of nrm unitholders of record on oct. 23 , among other conditions . nrm said 0 it expects unitholders to vote on the restructuring at a meeting dec. 15 .