the justice department has revised certain internal guidelines and clarified others in a move that could restrict the use of criminal racketeering charges against white-collar defendants . the most significant changes in department policy are new requirements that federal prosecutors avoid disrupting `` the normal business functions '' of companies charged under the racketeering law , a senior department official said 0 . another important revision of department policy is a new guideline warning prosecutors `` not to take steps that would harm innocent third parties '' in a case brought under the racketeering law , the official , david runkel , said 0 . the department distributed the revisions and clarifications to u.s. attorneys around the country this summer as part of a routine process of updating prosecutorial guidelines , mr. runkel said 0 . the changes apply to prosecutions brought under the racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations law . under that law , defendants who allegedly commit a pattern of crimes by means of a `` criminal enterprise '' may be charged with racketeering and forced to forfeit the proceeds of the enterprise . the rico law has come under criticism from some defendants and defense lawyers . they argue that the rights of rico defendants and third parties not named in rico indictments have been unfairly damaged . the department 's most significant clarification of existing rico policy is a directive to prosecutors that they should seek to seize assets from defendants `` in proportion '' to the nature of the alleged offense , mr. runkel said 0 . `` that means that if the offense deals with one part of the business , you do n't attempt to seize the whole business ; you attempt to seize assets related to the crime , '' he explained . in general , the thrust of the department 's directive is to encourage prosecutors to limit pretrial asset seizures if there are less intrusive means of protecting assets 0 the government may subsequently be able to seize after a conviction , mr. runkel said 0 .