ing . c. olivetti & co. , claiming 0 it has won the race in europe to introduce computers based on a powerful new microprocessor chip , unveiled its cp486 computer yesterday . the product is the first from a european company based on intel corp. 's new 32-bit 486tm microprocessor , which works several times faster than previously available chips . hewlett-packard co. became the first company world-wide 0 to announce a product based on the chip earlier this month , but it wo n't start shipping the computers until early next year . an olivetti spokesman said 0 the company 's factories are already beginning to produce the machine , and that it should be available in europe by december . `` what this means is that europeans will have these machines in their offices before americans do , '' the spokesman said . the new chip `` is a very big step in computing , and it is important that olivetti be one of the first out on the market with this product , '' said 0 patricia meagher davis , an analyst at james capel & co. in london . executives at olivetti , whose earnings have been steadily sliding over the past couple of years , have acknowledged that in the past they have lagged at getting new technology to market . ms. davis said 0 the new machines could steal some sales away from olivetti 's own minicomputers , but would bring new sales among professionals such as engineers , stockbrokers and medical doctors . although olivetti 's profits tumbled 40 % in the first half of this year , she believes 0 olivetti 's restructuring last fall and its introduction of new products will begin to bear fruit with an earnings rebound next year , especially if it can fulfill its promise to deliver the new machines by december . `` we think 0 the worst is over '' in the european information-technology market , she said 0 . depending on the type of software and peripherals used , the machines can serve either as the main computer in a network of many terminals -lrb- a role usually filled by a minicomputer -rrb- , as a technical workstation or as a very fast personal computer . `` it 's the missing link '' in olivetti 's product line between small personal computers and higher-priced minicomputers , the olivetti spokesman said 0 . he added that olivetti will continue making its lsx minicomputer line . the machines will cost around $ 16,250 on average in europe . the intel 486 chip can process 15 million instructions per second , or mips , while intel 's previous 386 chip could handle only 3 to 6 mips . olivetti also plans to sell the cp486 computer in the u.s. starting next year through olivetti usa and through its isc\/bunker ramo unit , which specializes in automating bank-branch networks .