why do you continually ignore the salubrious effects of indexing the basis of capital gains for inflation ? why do you maintain 0 the house-passed capital-gains plan is a `` temporary '' reduction when it is not ? i think 0 the reason is that you are confusing tax `` rates '' with tax `` payments . '' your sept. 29 page-one story on the house-passed capital-gains plan is a good example . you lead readers to believe that the house reduced the capital-gains tax for two years only . you virtually ignore the tax-reducing power of indexation , which in many cases is more substantial than a lower rate . the monetary tax benefit of indexation for all gains in excess of inflation can be measured using the following equation : tax rate , times inflation rate , times basis for the gain . depending on the size of the gain and the rate of inflation , indexation can mean a lower tax payment than using the 19.6 % rate without indexation . but in any event -- and this is the important point -- tax `` payments '' on capital gains will be lower with indexation than under current law , even though the tax `` rate '' is the same under both systems . as you can see , the capital-gains reduction plan adopted by the house would not be temporary , but permanent . i hope that you begin talking about the plan 's permanent and , in my view , most beneficial feature -- indexation . rep. robert k. dornan -lrb- r. , calif . -rrb- washington that the motivation for the two-year reduction to 19.6 % is budgetary does not mean 0 it is not in the public interest . the reduction eases the burden on portfolio changes and frees capital to seek more productive or more appropriate uses . but what is really significant is the indexation of capital gains after 1991 . to argue that this is `` not likely '' to affect the economy in positive ways is contrary both to recent experience with capital-gains tax cuts and to common sense . a large part of the long-term appreciation of assets reflects inflation , and the taxation of inflation-created capital gains is confiscation . does the journal really believe that people ignore the prospect of having a substantial part of their capital confiscated when they decide whether to save or how to invest ? under current law , it is not financially rational to forgo consumption . real , aftertax returns from financial assets are on the order of 1 % or 2 % a year . the capital-gains tax reform is a step toward correcting one of the gravest structural weaknesses of the u.s. economy , the closely connected phenomena of low savings rates , weak capital formation and high capital costs . j. sigurd nielsen richmond , va .