one of ronald reagan 's attributes as president was that he rarely gave his blessing to the claptrap that passes for `` consensus '' in various international institutions . in fact , he liberated the u.s. from one of the world 's most corrupt organizations -- unesco . this is the u.n. group that managed to traduce its own charter of promoting education , science and culture . ever since , the remaining members have been desperate for the united states to rejoin this dreadful group . now unesco apologists are lobbying president bush to renege on president reagan 's decision to depart . but we can think of many reasons 0 to stay out for the foreseeable future and well beyond . the u.s. , along with britain and singapore , left the agency when its anti-western ideology , financial corruption and top leadership got out of hand . the personal antics of agency director amadou-mahtar m'bow drew much attention , such as when several of his top aides were uncovered as kgb plants and ejected from france and when a mysterious office fire was set just before congress sent accountants 0 to trace u.s. funds . mr. m'bow was an extreme case , but even his replacement , the more personally genial spanish biochemist federico mayor , has had little success at achieving reforms . several ridiculous projects continue , including the `` new international economic order , '' which means redistributionism from the west 0 to pay for everyone else 's statism . the orwellian `` new world information order '' would give government officials rights against the press ; journalists would be obliged to kowtow to their government , which would have licensing and censorship powers and , indeed , duties to block printing of `` wrong '' ideas . unesco somehow converted the founding u.n. ideals of individual rights and liberty into `` peoples ' rights . '' million-dollar conferences were held 0 to chew on subjects such as `` ethical responsibilities of scientists in support of disarmament '' and `` the impact of the activities of transnational corporations . '' the agency was so totally subverted from the high principles of its founding that even the soviets now wonder about an agency that seemed so congenial to them . glasnost may be partly responsible , but soviet foreign minister eduard shevardnadze last year admitted , `` the exaggerated ideological approach undermined tolerance intrinsic to unesco . '' unesco is now holding its biennial meetings in paris 0 to devise its next projects . mr. mayor 's hope that references to `` press freedom '' would survive unamended seems doomed to failure ; the current phrasing is `` educating the public and media to avoid manipulation . '' he has n't been able to replace the m'bow cabal . soviets remain in charge of education programs , a former head of an african military tribunal for executions is in charge of culture , and a hard-line polish communist in exile directs the human-rights and peace division . of the agency 's 2,750 staff members , 230 are in the field working on actual projects , such as literacy and oceanographic research . the position of the united states , which once contributed 25 % of the budget , is that nothing has changed . john bolton , the assistant secretary of state for international organizations , told congress that the continuing `` statist , restrictive , nondemocratic '' programs make rejoining any time soon `` extremely unlikely . '' this has n't much bothered the unesco delegates , who last week could n't even agree to raise funds by selling off a fancy 19th-century french chateau 0 the agency somehow owns . other countries , including west germany , may have a hard time justifying continued membership . we see an even stronger argument against unesco than its unsurprising failure to reform . this is that the reagan revolution spanning eastern europe and tiananmen square shows the power of ideas unencumbered by international civil servants or government functionaries . free markets , free minds and free elections have an appeal that seems to get muddled only when delivered through u.n. organizations -- which of course are made up largely of governments that fear these principles at home . the babelists of the united nations are experts at obfuscation . this can have its purposes at times , but there 's no reason 0 to cloud the importance and allure of western concepts of freedom and justice . we can see plenty of reasons 0 to stay out , and none 0 to rejoin unesco .