this small dallas suburb 's got trouble . trouble with a capital t and that rhymes with p and that stands for pool . more than 30 years ago , prof. harold hill , the con man in meredith willson 's `` the music man , '' warned the citizens of river city , iowa , against the game . now kindred spirits on addison 's town council have barred the town 's fanciest hotel , the grand kempinski , from installing three free pool tables in its new lounge . mayor lynn spruill and two members of the council said 0 they were worried about setting a precedent that would permit pool halls along addison 's main street . and the mayor , in an admonition that bears a rhythmic resemblance to prof. hill 's , warned that `` alcohol leads to betting , which leads to fights . '' the council 's action is yet another blow to a sport that its fans claim 0 has been maligned unjustly for years . `` obviously they 're not in touch with what 's going on , '' says tom manske , vice president of the national pocket billiards association . pool is hot in new york and chicago , he insists 0 , where `` upscale , suit-and-tie places '' are adding tables . with today 's tougher drunk driving laws , he adds 0 , `` people do n't want to just sit around and drink . '' besides , rowdy behavior seems unlikely at the grand kempinski , where rooms average $ 200 a night and the cheap mixed drinks go for $ 3.50 a pop . at the lounge , manager elizabeth dyer wo n't admit patrons in jeans , t-shirts or tennis shoes . but a majority of the addison council did n't buy those arguments . introducing pool , argued 0 councilwoman riley reinker , would be `` dangerous . it would open a can of worms . '' addison is no stranger to cans of worms , either . after its previous mayor committed suicide last year , an investigation disclosed that town officials regularly voted on their own projects , gave special favors to developer friends and dipped into the town 's coffers for trips and retreats . the revelations embarrassed town officials , although they argued that the problems were n't as severe as the media suggested 0 . now comes the pool flap . `` i think 0 there 's some people worried about something pretty ridiculous , '' councilman john nolan says . `` i thought 0 this was all taken care of in ` the music man .