crude oil futures prices fell further as analysts and traders said 0 opec oil producers are n't putting the brakes on output ahead of the traditionally weak first quarter . in trading on the new york mercantile exchange , the u.s. benchmark west texas intermediate crude fell 39 cents a barrel to $ 19.76 for december delivery . petroleum products prices also declined . analysts pointed to reports that the organization of petroleum exporting countries is producing substantially more than its official limit of 20.5 million barrels a day , with some accounts putting the 13-nation group 's output as high as 23 million barrels a day . that level of production did n't take its toll on futures prices for the fourth quarter , when demand is traditionally strong . but because first-quarter demand is normally the weakest of the year , several market participants say 0 , opec production will have to decline to keep prices from eroding further . the group plans to meet in a month to discuss production strategy for early 1990 . with prices already headed lower , news of a series of explosions at a major phillips petroleum co. chemical facility on the houston ship channel also was bearish for prices . even though such facilities use a relatively small amount of crude , analysts say 0 , now the facility wo n't need any , at a time of already high availability . the phillips plant makes polyethylene , polypropylene and other plastic products . a company official said 0 the explosions began when a seal blew out . dozens of workers were injured , authorities said 0 . there was no immediate estimate of damage from the company . some petroleum futures traders say 0 technical considerations now will help to put downward pressure on futures prices . for instance , one trader said that prices inevitably will go lower now that they 've fallen below $ 20 a barrel . `` our technician is a little bearish now that we 've taken out $ 20 , '' he said . in other commodity markets yesterday : copper : the selling that started on friday continued yesterday . the december contract fell 3.85 cents a pound to $ 1.1960 . london metal exchange warehouse stocks were down only 4,800 metric tons for the week to 84,500 tons ; expectations late last week were a drop of 10,000 to 15,000 tons . the new york market made its high for the day on the opening and when it dropped below the $ 1.23-a-pound level , selling picked up as previous buyers bailed out of their positions and aggressive short sellers -- anticipating further declines -- moved in . fund selling also picked up at that point . according to bernard savaiko , senior commodity analyst at painewebber , the only stability to the market came when short sellers periodically moved in to cover their positions by buying contracts . this activity produced small rallies , which in turn attracted new short selling . mr. savaiko noted that copper had a steep fall in spite of a weak dollar , which would normally support the u.s. copper market . such support usually comes from arbitragers who use a strong british pound to buy copper in new york . `` the sell-off would probably have been worse if the dollar had been strong , '' he said . copper has been stuck in a trading range of $ 1.19 to $ 1.34 . mr. savaiko believes that if copper falls below the bottom of this range the next significant support level will be about $ 1.04 . precious metals : platinum and palladium struggled to maintain their prices all day despite news stories over the weekend that recent cold fusion experiments , which use both metals , showed signs of producing extra heat . january platinum closed down $ 2.80 an ounce at $ 486.30 , nearly $ 4 above its low for the day . december palladium was off $ 1.55 an ounce at $ 137.20 . platinum is believed to have good support around $ 480 and palladium at around $ 130 . some traders were thought to be waiting for the auto sales report , which will be released today . such sales are watched closely by platinum and palladium traders because both metals are used in automobile catalytic converters . mr. savaiko theorized that the news on cold fusion did n't affect the market yesterday because many traders have already been badly burnt by such stories . he said 0 the traders are demanding a higher level of proof before they will buy palladium again . also weighing on both metals ' prices is the role of the chief supplier , the soviet union . many analysts believe that the soviets ' thirst for dollars this year 0 to buy grain and other western commodities and goods will bring them to the market whenever prices rally very much . grains and soybeans : prices closed mixed as contracts reacted to largely offsetting bullish and bearish news . on the chicago board of trade , soybeans for november delivery closed at $ 5.63 a bushel , down half a cent , while the december wheat contract rose three-quarters of a cent to $ 4.0775 a bushel . supporting prices was the announcement late friday of additional grain sales to the soviet union . but acting as a drag on prices was the improved harvest weather over the weekend and the prospect for continued fair weather this week over much of the farm belt . strong farmer selling over the weekend also weighed on prices . sugar : world prices tumbled , mostly from their own weight , according to analysts . the march contract ended at 13.79 cents a pound , down 0.37 cent . for the past week or so , traders have been expecting india to buy between 150,000 and 200,000 tons of refined sugar , and there have been expectations of a major purchase by japan . but with no reports of either country actually entering the market , analysts said 0 , futures prices became vulnerable . developing countries such as india , some analysts said , seem to have made it a point to stay away whenever sugar reached the top of its trading range , around 14.75 cents , and wait for prices to return to the bottom of the range , around 13.50 cents . but erik dunlaevy , a sugar analyst with balfour maclaine international ltd. , said 0 the explanation for the latest drop in sugar prices is much simpler : speculators , he said 0 , `` got too long too soon and ran into resistance around the old contract highs . '' a painewebber analyst said that in light of a new estimate of a production increase of four million metric tons and only a modest increase in consumption , sugar is n't likely to rise above the top of its trading range without a crop problem in a major producing country . cocoa : futures rallied modestly . the december contract rose $ 33 a metric ton to $ 1,027 , near its high for the day . gill & duffus ltd. , a british cocoa-trading house , estimated that the 1989-90 world cocoa surplus would be 231,000 tons , down from 314,000 tons for the previous year . market technicians were encouraged by the price patterns , which in the past have preceded sharp rallies . recent prices for cocoa have been near levels last seen in the mid-1970s . at such prices , according to mr. savaiko , bargain hunting and short-covering -- buying back of contracts previously sold -- by speculators is n't uncommon . but mr. savaiko expects stepped-up producer selling at around the $ 1,040 to $ 1,050 level . he also noted that a strong sterling market yesterday might have helped cocoa in new york as arbitragers took advantage of the currency move . sandra kaul , research analyst at shearson lehman hutton , said 0 the market pushed higher mainly in anticipation of a late harvest in the ivory coast , a major cocoa producer .