they did n't play the third game of the world series on tuesday night as scheduled , and they did n't play it on wednesday or thursday either . but you knew that , did n't you ? they are supposed to play the game next tuesday , in candlestick park here . the theory is that the stadium , damaged by tuesday 's earthquake , will be repaired by then , and that people will be able to get there . like just about everything else , that remains to be seen . aftershocks could intervene . but , at least , the law of averages should have swung to the favorable side . it may seem trivial to worry about the world series amid the destruction to the bay area wrought by tuesday 's quake , but the name of this column is `` on sports , '' so i feel obliged to do so . you might be interested to know that baseball , not survival , appeared to be the first thought of most of the crowd of 60,000-odd that had gathered at candlestick at 5:04 p.m. tuesday , a half-hour before game time , when the quake struck . as soon as the tremor passed , many people spontaneously arose and cheered , as though it had been a novel kind of pre-game show . one fan , seated several rows in front of the open , upper-deck auxiliary press section where i was stationed , faced the assembled newsies and laughingly shouted , `` we arranged that just for you guys ! '' i thought and , i 'm sure , others did : `` you should n't have bothered . '' i 'd slept through my only previous brush with natural disaster , a tornado 15 or so summers ago near traverse city , mich. , so i was unprepared for one reaction to such things : the urge to talk about them . perhaps primed by the daily diet of radio and tv reporters thrusting microphones into people 's faces and asking how they `` feel '' about one calamity or another , fellow reporters and civilians who spied my press credential were eager to chat . `` it felt like i was on a station platform and a train went by , '' said one man , describing my own reaction . a women said 0 she saw the park 's light standards sway . a man said 0 he saw the upper rim undulate . i saw neither . dictates of good sense to the contrary not withstanding , the general inclination was to believe that the disturbance would be brief and that ball would be played . `` i was near the top of the stadium , and saw a steel girder bow six feet from where i sat , but i stayed put for 10 or 15 minutes , '' confessed a friend . `` i guess 0 i thought , ` this is the world series and i 'm not gon na wimp out ! ' '' here in the global village , though , folks do not stay uninformed for long . electrical power was out in still-daylighted candlestick park , but battery-operated radios and television sets were plentiful . within a few minutes , the true extent of the catastrophe was becoming clear . its richter scale measurement was reported as 6.5 , then 6.9 , then 7.0 . a section of the bay bridge had collapsed , as had a part of interstate highway 880 in oakland . people had died . at 5:40 p.m. , scheduled game time having passed , some fans chanted `` let 's play ball . '' no longer innocent , they qualified as fools . the stadium was ordered evacuated soon afterward ; the announcement , made over police bullhorns , cited the power outage , but it later was revealed that there also had been damage of the sort reported by my friend . outside , i spotted two young men lugging blocks of concrete . `` pieces of candlestick , '' they said . the crowd remained good natured , even bemused . tv reporters interviewed fans in the parking lots while , a few feet away , others watched the interviews on their portable tvs . the only frenzy 0 i saw was commercial : booths selling world series commemorative stamps and dated postmarks were besieged by fledgling speculators who saw future profit in the items . the traffic jam out of the park was monumental . it took me a half-hour to move 10 feet from my parking spot in an outer lot to an aisle , and an additional hour to reach an inner roadway a half-block away . the six-mile trip to my airport hotel that had taken 20 minutes earlier in the day took more than three hours . at my hotel , the westin , power was out , some interior plaster had broken loose and there had been water damage , but little else . with garpian randomness , a hotel across the street , the amfac , had been hit harder : a large sheet of its concrete facade and several window balconies were torn away . the westin staff had , kindly , set out lighted candles in the ballroom , prepared a cold-cuts buffet and passed around pillows and blankets . i fell asleep on the lobby floor , next to a man wearing a chicago cubs jacket . i expected him to say , `` i told you so , '' but he already was snoring . the journalistic consensus was that the earthquake made the world series seem unimportant . my response was that sports rarely are important , only diverting , and the quake merely highlighted that fact . should the rest of the series be played at all ? sure . the quake and baseball were n't related , unlike the massacre of athletes that attended the 1972 olympics . that heavily politicized event learned nothing from the horrifying experience , and seems doomed to repeat it . two ironies intrude . this has been widely dubbed the bart series , after the local subway line , and the bay bridge series . flags fly at half-staff for the death of bart giamatti , the late baseball commissioner , and now the bay bridge lies in ruins . a series that was shaping up as the dullest since the one-sided detroit-over-san diego go of 1984 has become memorable in the least fortunate way . still , its edge is lost . it now will be played mostly for the record , and should be wrapped up as quickly as possible , without `` off '' days . and i will never again complain about a rainout .