control data corp. , which just months ago was hemorrhaging financially , thinks 0 it will be healthy enough soon to consider repurchasing public debt . moreover , the company , whose go-it-alone approach nearly proved fatal , now sees alliances with others as the way back to prosperity in what it calls `` the data solutions '' business . `` i 'm not saying 0 everything is hunky-dory , but we have completed the transition , '' robert m. price , chairman and chief executive , said in an interview . `` transition '' is a reference to the company 's five-year restructuring effort . during that time , control data had losses of more than $ 1 billion . now , following asset sales that shrank revenue by more than one-third this year alone , control data is flush with cash . so its senior executives are talking openly about possibly buying back some of the company 's $ 172.5 million in subordinated convertible debentures next year . `` we 'd like to continue to reduce debt , '' president lawrence perlman said . noting that the company is offering to buy back $ 154.2 million in senior notes paying 12 3\/4 % , he said 0 the response will help determine future debt-reduction efforts . the offer was automatically triggered by the recent sale of control data 's imprimis disk-drive business to seagate technology inc . mr. perlman , who is also acting chief financial officer and the odds-on favorite 0 to become the next chief executive , said 0 the company is achieving `` modest positive cash flow from operations , and we expect that to continue into 1990 . '' he said 0 the company has no intention of tapping its short-term bank lines `` for a good part of 1990 . '' sometime next year , control data will `` develop a new bank relationship , '' mr. perlman said . in recent months a group of lenders , led by bank of america , has extended control data up to $ 90 million in revolving loans through january , as well as $ 115 million in standby letters of credit . loan covenants require that the company achieve specified levels of operating earnings and meet a rolling four-quarter profitability test . last week control data reported third-quarter earnings of $ 9.8 million , or 23 cents a share , on revenue of $ 763 million . through the first nine months , the company had a loss of $ 484 million , largely reflecting the closing of its supercomputer unit . while a few assets are still being shopped -- including the sports and entertainment ticketing portion of the company 's ticketron unit -- mr. price said 0 future restructuring would be a question of strategy . `` we do n't need the cash . '' ticketron 's automated wagering business , which operates lotteries in a half dozen states , is not for sale , the company said 0 . rather , mr. perlman said 0 , control data intends to bid for the coming minnesota lottery contract and is seeking new applications for the technology overseas , where `` there is great interest in games of skill . '' he would n't elaborate . control data 's semiconductor business , vtc inc. , continues to lose money , the executives acknowledged 0 , but they said 0 they consider some of the technology vital to national defense and so are reluctant to dispose of it . the company 's strategy for keeping its computer products business profitable -- it recently achieved profitability after several quarters of losses -- calls for a narrow focus and a lid on expenses . partly , costs will be held down through strategic technology alliances , management said 0 . control data recently announced an agreement with mips computer systems inc. to jointly develop machines with simplified operating software . james e. ousley , computer products group president , said 0 such arrangements could help slash control data 's computer research and development costs in half by the end of 1990 . he disclosed that before control data scrapped its eta systems inc. supercomputer business this past spring , those costs were running at nearly 35 % of group revenue . at the same time four of six design projects were spiked , he said 0 . asked how the company hopes to expand its computer hardware business , mr. ousley said 0 it sees good opportunities in systems integration . `` we think 0 we 're getting only 10 % of the integration dollars 0 our customers are spending , '' he said . `` we 're in environments that are going to spend a lot of money on that . '' control data mainframes are designed for numerically intensive computing users , such as the scientific , engineering and academic communities . utilities management is a major commercial niche . reviewing the company 's scrape with disaster , mr. price conceded 0 it had tried to do too much on its own . `` absolutely , '' he said . but while its stock is selling at about half control data 's estimated breakup value , neither messrs. perlman nor price said 0 he spends much time considering the possibility of a hostile takeover . `` we 've been listed as a candidate for so long 0 it 's not worth 0 worrying about , '' said mr. price .