gen-probe inc. , a biotechnology concern , said 0 it signed a definitive agreement to be acquired by chugai pharmaceutical co. of tokyo for about $ 110 million , or almost double the market price of gen-probe 's stock . the move is sure to heighten concerns about increased japanese investment in u.s. biotechnology firms . it is also likely to bolster fears that the japanese will use their foothold in u.s. biotechnology concerns to gain certain trade and competitive advantages . gen-probe , an industry leader in the field of genetic probes , which is a new technology used in diagnostic tests , last year signed an agreement for chugai to exclusively market its diagnostic products in japan for infectious diseases and cancer . chugai agreed then to fund certain associated research and development costs . that arrangement apparently has worked well , and thomas a. bologna , president and chief executive officer of gen-probe , founded in 1983 , said 0 the sale of the company means 0 `` we will be able to concentrate on running the business rather than always looking for sources of financing . '' chugai agreed to pay $ 6.25 a share for gen-probe 's 17.6 million common shares outstanding on a fully diluted basis . yesterday , in national trading in the over-the-counter market , gen-probe common closed at $ 3.25 a share . because the u.s. leads in most areas of biotechnology -- largely because of research investment by the u.s. government -- the sale is sure to increase concerns that japanese companies will buy american know-how and use it to obtain the upper hand in biotechnology trade and competition . `` the biotechnology firms may be setting up their own competitors , '' said richard godown , president of the industrial biotechnology association . he added that until now the japanese have only acquired equity positions in u.s. biotechnology companies . `` they are piggybacking onto developed technology , '' he said . during the past five years , japanese concerns have invested in several of the u.s. 's 431 independent biotechnology companies . chugai has been one of the most active japanese players in u.s. biotechnology companies ; it has an equity investment in genetics institute inc. , cambridge , mass. , and a joint-venture agreement with upjohn co. , kalamazoo , mich . the japanese government , mr. godown said 0 , has stated that it wants 10 % to 11 % of its gross national product to come from biotechnology products . `` it is becoming more of a horse race every day between the u.s. and japan , '' he said , adding that some fear that as with the semiconductor , electronics , and automobile industries , japanese companies will use u.s.-developed technology to gain trade advantages . mr. bologna said 0 the sale would allow gen-probe to speed up the development of new technology , and to more quickly apply existing technology to an array of diagnostic products 0 the company wants to offer . by 1988 , when only 10 genetic probe-based tests of diagnostic infectious diseases of humans had been approved for marketing by the food and drug administration , eight of them had been developed and sold by gen-probe . osamu nagayama , deputy president of chugai , which spends about 15 % of its sales on research and development , was unable to pinpoint how much money chugai would pump into gen-probe . `` we think 0 gen-probe has technology important to people 's health , '' he said , adding : `` we think 0 it is important for us to have such technology . '' he and mr. bologna emphasized that both companies would gain technological knowledge through the sale of gen-probe , which will expand `` significantly '' as a result of the acquisition . in 1988 , chugai had net income of $ 60 million on revenue of $ 991 million . genprobe had a net loss of $ 9.5 million on revenue of $ 5.8 million . recently , gen-probe received a broad u.s. patent for a technology that helps detect , identify and quantify non-viral organisms through the targeting of a form of genetic material called ribosomal rna . among other things , mr. bologna said that the sale will facilitate gen-probe 's marketing of a diagnostic test for acquired immune deficiency syndrome , or aids . chugai also will help gen-probe with its regulatory and marketing expertise in asia , mr. bologna said 0 . the tender offer for gen-probe 's shares is expected to begin next monday , the company said 0 .