intensive audits are coming to 55,500 taxpayers as research guinea pigs . this is the year : unsuspecting filers of 1988 personal returns are being picked randomly for thorough audits to help the irs update its criteria for enforcement , audit selection , and use of resources . the last taxpayer compliance measurement program survey covered 1985 returns . the 1988-return project starts jan. 1 and is to be done by may 31 , 1991 . specially trained irs agents will look for under-reported income and unsupported deductions and credits . the agents will make more than routine inquiries about such items as marital status and dependents ; they want to look at living standards and business assets . but they also are to see that taxpayers get all allowable tax benefits and to ask if filers who sought irs aid were satisfied with it . courts have ruled that taxpayers must submit to tcmp audits , but the irs will excuse from the fullscale rigors anyone who was audited without change for either 1986 or 1987 . rewards have been suggested -- but never adopted -- for filers who come through tcmp audits without change . penalty overhaul is still likely , congressional sources say 0 . long-debated proposals to simplify the more than 150 civil penalties and make them fairer and easier 0 to administer are in the house tax bill . but they were stripped from the senate bill after staffers estimated 0 penalty revenue would fall by $ 216 million over five years . still , congressional aides say 0 penalty reform is a strong candidate for enactment , even if not this time around , although some provisions may be modified . sen. pryor -lrb- d. , ark. -rrb- , a leader on the issue who generally backs the house plan , wants some changes -- for one , separate sanctions for negligence and large misstatements of tax owed , not a single penalty . he would ease the proposed penalties for delayed payroll-tax deposits and for faulty form 1099 and other reports that taxpayers correct voluntarily . the general accounting office urges congress to ensure that all penalties retain their force as deterrents . taxpayers ' rights are defined by a growing number of states . the 1988 tax act created a federal bill of rights spelling out irs duties to protect taxpayers ' rights in the assessment and collection of taxes . states are following suit . california enacted a rights law in 1988 . in 1989 , illinois , kansas , ohio , oregon and south carolina have adopted rights laws , the federation of tax administrators , a state officials ' group , reports 0 ; the features vary . and taxpayer groups are urging legislation in many other states . one group is the committee on state taxation , which comprises 330 multistate corporations and advises the council of state chambers of commerce . the group 's mark cahoon says 0 its efforts begun in 1989 have led to the introduction of bills in massachusetts , minnesota and colorado 0 to establish evenhanded procedures affecting all kinds of taxpayers . the group also seeks uniformity among states in provisions for taxpayers ' rights . this week , new york city announced a 10-point policy patterned on the federal bill of rights for taxpayers . the mileage rate allowed for business use of a car in 1989 has risen to 25.5 cents a mile for the first 15,000 from 24 cents in 1988 , the irs says 0 ; the rate stays 11 cents for each added mile . also unaltered : 12 cents for charitable activities and nine cents for medical and moving costs . ira balances could be used to qualify for bank services under a bill entered by reps. chandler -lrb- r. , wash . -rrb- and andrews -lrb- d. , texas -rrb- . the bill would thwart a recent labor department opinion that investing individual-retirement-account funds to earn free checking violates the law . hugo felled vast timberlands . south carolina 's congressional delegation has entered senate and house bills 0 to provide special casualty-loss treatment and other tax relief for timber growers in the hurricane disaster areas . he rode his hobby , but he could n't milk it , the tax court says 0 . the court often weighs deductions of sideline-business costs : do they stem from a profit-seeking activity or a nondeductible hobby ? but it 's rare to see both functions in one case . charles o. givens of mount vernon , ind. - investment broker , ex-accountant , and son of a former stable owner - bred tennessee walking horses for six years , raised cattle for four , and never made a profit on either . he claimed losses totaling $ 42,455 -- and the irs denied them all . special judge galloway noted that givens managed horse-breeding in a businesslike way : he kept detailed accounts , practiced soil conservation , enhanced his experience by consulting experts , spent several hours a day doing chores , and dropped the sideline when his best brood mare died . yet he took little businesslike care with his cattle : he had no prior experience and did n't seek business counsel about them . the judge said 0 givens may deduct his $ 30,180 of losses from horse breeding , but rejected the $ 12,275 in deductions from the cattle operation . briefs : the irs already is doing intensive tcmp audits of 19,000 returns for 1987 and fiscal 1988 filed by corporations with under $ 10 million in assets ... . president bush says 0 he will name donald e. kirkendall to the new treasury post of inspector general , which has responsibilities for the irs ... . the u.s. and finland signed an income-tax treaty , subject to ratification .