well , the arrogant east coast media have spoken again -lrb- `` going for the green , '' editorial , oct. 17 -rrb- . having resided in the great state of california for the past seven years , i find it hard to ignore our environmental problems when i start my commute to work with eyes tearing and head aching from the polluted air ; when i try to enjoy the beaches and come home covered with tar and oil ; when i hear of numerous deaths related to irresponsible processing of cheese and use of chemicals in fruit growing . perhaps it 's entertaining for those like you to discount the concerns of environmentalists , suggesting that their save-the-earth initiatives are `` whacky '' and referring to so many citizens as `` la-la activists . '' strange that we do n't hear similar criticisms of the east coast activists who seek to clean up boston harbor or rid their beaches of medical waste . while there are no easy low-cost solutions , simply ignoring our problems will result in their severity increasing and spreading throughout the state , the nation and the world . if nothing else , such initiatives as these will provide an awareness to citizens and lawmakers and encourage appropriate corrective action . before your next california-bashing editorial , please spend more time out here witnessing the situation -- it just may change your view . john barry ventura , calif . i realize 0 you were just looking for something snotty 0 to say about california and its environmental movement , but picking frank lloyd wright to say it for you was a bad call . wright 's organic architecture demonstrated a keen sensitivity to the environment decades before it became fashionable among `` la-la activists . '' indeed , wright said all his life that the greatest lessons 0 he learned were derived from the study of nature . obviously , it 's lost on you that about 75 % of the american people these days -lrb- and in fact the president of the united states -rrb- consider themselves environmentalists . as for california being a state run by liberal environmental loonies , let 's not forget where ronald reagan came from . perhaps mr. reagan , who claimed that air pollution is caused by trees , is the man 0 you should be quoting to back up your position that economics is more important than the earth . but it was frank lloyd wright who said , `` is this not anti-christ ? the moloch that knows no god but more ? '' robert borden santa monica , calif . your editorial was commendable and neatly matched by the readers ' comments in letters to the editor , `` alar : scaring on the side of caution . '' the illogic and inaccuracy of john h. adams 's comments for the national resources defense council fully justifies your characterization of california 's greens in particular as `` la-la activists . '' we may all hope that california 's voters will heed the scientific realities that their own university 's renowned prof. tom jukes provides them and ignore the charlatanry profferred by their `` wealthy hollywood weepers . '' i have a different approach 0 to offer , not only to californians , but to all americans . in a free country , the law should restrict citizens as little as is consistent with good manners and public safety . would-be naysayers should have the burden of proving reasonable necessity when they urge a prohibition for enactment into law . w. brown morton jr . warsaw , va . the 170 airlines in the international air transport association last year posted group net profit of $ 2.5 billion on revenue of $ 125.1 billion . according to the association 's annual report , scheduled to be released today in warsaw , iata members have n't posted such a strong performance since the late 1970s . revenue last year increased by more than 11 % over 1988 , and net income nearly tripled from restated year-earlier net of $ 900 million . the group attributed the strong results to the favorable economic climate , rising demand for air travel and improved average yield -lrb- revenue received per ton of traffic transported a kilometer -rrb- . systemwide , iata airlines carried 632 million passengers last year , 2 % more than in 1987 . but passenger-kilometers , the distance flown while carrying people , increased 5.3 % in 1988 . the association said that lack of airport and air space capacity is the biggest problem facing the airline industry . the kgb has abolished a unit known for persecuting dissidents , the government newspaper izvestia said 0 . the newspaper quoted kgb chairman vladimir a. kryuchkov as saying 0 the definition of anti-soviet crimes had narrowed , the laws had changed and people no longer have to fear a simple slip of the tongue . mr. kryuchkov was quoted as saying that in place of the infamous 5th directorate a new unit would work `` to foil the conspiracies of foreign intelligence services to create and use organized anti-government groups in our country . '' czechoslovakia has restricted consumer-goods exports to neighbor countries because of `` massive buying out of food '' by tourists from poland , hungary and the soviet union , the rude pravo daily said 0 . rising inflation in poland and hungary makes czechoslovak food , clothing and shoes relatively cheap for visitors from these countries . the paper gave no details of what the restrictions would entail but said 0 the measures were necessary to protect the domestic market . west germany 's biggest union , ig metall , said 0 it is ready to back demands for more pay and shorter hours with strikes against the nation 's automotive , steel and engineering industries . its chairman told the union to prepare for the worst in next year 's confrontation with employers over a new three-year wage deal . a major goal is to cut the working week to 35 hours from the present 37 . last week came news of alarm in venice over a plan to tap gas fields off the city 's coast . now comes word from a scientist that over the next century venice will sink nearly three times faster than the present rate because of the `` greenhouse effect . '' `` global warming means higher tides which will lower venice by another 23 inches in the next 100 years , '' giovanni cecconi of the the new venice consortium said . the consortium of scientists and companies was set up by italy to help preserve the fabled city of canals . venice has sunk 10 inches in this century . west germany 's quelle said 0 it will establish a mail-order operation with two local partners in the soviet union next year . saying 0 this is a first for a western company , west germany 's largest mail-order group said 0 the newly established moscow-based intermoda company is scheduled to begin operations in february 1990 . intermoda will initially only send the textile and clothing section of the quelle catalog , translated into russian , to soviet customers who have access to convertible currency . the european community commission has imposed provisional anti-dumping duties on imports of south korean small-screen color-television sets . saying that a surge in low-priced imports had damaged ec producers ' profits and led to job losses , the commission imposed a duty of 10.2 % on tvs made by daewoo , a duty of 12.3 % on goldstar co. , 13 % on samsung and 19.6 % on tvs made by other south korean producers . the commission said that ec television producers lost `` important market shares '' and suffered an `` unsustainable '' pressure on prices because of the korean companies ' marketing and pricing policies , which it said 0 were `` in clear violation '' of international trade rules . in other news concerning south korea 's television industry , samsung signed an agreement with soyuz , the external-trade organization of the soviet union , to swap korean television sets and videocassette recorders for pig iron from the soviet union . south korea and the soviet union have no diplomatic relations but exchanged trade offices earlier this year . sri lanka , where more than 15,000 people have died in six years of ethnic turmoil , said 0 it will ban sex and violence from state-owned television next year . `` many programs 0 we have now come from the west and are not suitable to our culture , '' a government minister said . a star attraction on the national network is the u.s. 's `` dynasty . '' ... a poll of south koreans showed overwhelming opposition to efforts to curb dog-meat consumption just because it offends foreigners .