a bill that would permit the securities and exchange commission to monitor the financial condition of securities firms ' holding companies is facing tough opposition from some wall street firms , which argue that the legislation is unnecessary . the legislation and other issues related to the stock market will be the focus of hearings this week by the house telecommunications and finance subcommittee and the senate securities subcommittee . richard breeden , the new chairman of the sec , has n't taken a formal position on the bill , which would also require investors to disclose large trades and give the sec additional authority during market emergencies . however , he recently told the senate banking committee that he believes 0 the agency should have explicit authority to monitor debt levels at holding companies and affiliates of broker-dealers , which are frequently used to issue bridge loans . the bridge loans are intended to provide temporary financing for acquisitions . since such loans are often refinanced through the sale of high-risk , high-yield junk bonds , the recent woes of the junk-bond market have renewed concerns among regulators about the risks associated with wall street firms issuing bridge loans . but some wall street executives argue that such fears are unwarranted . in a july 6 letter to the senate securities subcommittee , first boston corp. argued that the fact that no retail brokerage firm failed during the 1987 market crash demonstrates that current rules are adequate . first boston , whose holding company , cs first boston group , is one of the larger issuers of bridge loans on wall street , said 0 it is also concerned that once the sec has the power to monitor holding companies , it will try to regulate their activities . `` the proposal , while well-intended , i think 0 can be dangerously misleading because the likely consequence would be to weaken , rather than strengthen the control 0 the sec has exercised for 50 years over the financial adequacy and viability of broker-dealers , '' michael raoul-duval , managing director of first boston , said in an interview . the bill would `` divert scarce resources of the commission away from broker-dealers into areas which simply have no way of affecting broker-dealers , '' mr. raoul-duval said 0 . sources in the industry and on capitol hill say 0 a compromise that would placate the industry while addressing the sec 's concerns may be possible . an aide to the senate securities subcommittee says 0 some legislators support the concept of risk disclosure , but adds : `` nobody is wedded to the language in the bill . '' edward o'brien , president of the securities industry association , said that the securities-industry trade group opposes the bill as it is written but that it is `` hopeful 0 a compromise can be reached to achieve the sec 's goals . '' mr. o'brien will elaborate on the sia 's position in testimony before the house telecommunications and finance subcommittee this week , a spokesman said 0 .