japan has found another safe outlet for its money : u.s. home mortgages . an increasing number of big japanese investors are buying up u.s. home mortgages that have been pooled and packaged for sale as interest-bearing instruments known as mortgage-backed securities . as much as 10 % of new u.s. mortgage securities issued by the federal national mortgage association , or fannie mae , and federal home loan mortgage corp. , or freddie mac , now flow into japanese hands . that may not come as a surprise to americans who have watched the japanese snap up properties in the u.s. from golf courses to a stake in rockefeller center . but it marks a big change for the japanese , who shunned mortgage securities after getting burned by a big downturn in interest rates a few years back . `` you ca n't say 0 it 's a `` tsunami '' -lrb- tidal wave -rrb- , but we 're making some headway , '' says fannie mae 's chairman , david o. maxwell , who visits tokyo at least once a year to explain and drum up investor interest in mortgage securities . `` interest is a great deal higher than it was a year ago . '' the steady growth of the mortgage securities market in the u.s. has even triggered talk of building up a similar market here . evidence of the growing japanese demand for mortgage securities abounds . earlier this year , blackstone group , a new york investment bank , had no trouble selling out a special $ 570 million mortgage-securities trust 0 it created for japanese investors . industrial bank of japan , which claims to be the biggest japanese buyer of u.s. mortgage securities , says 0 it will more than double its purchases this year , to an amount 0 one official puts at several billion dollars . and a fannie mae seminar this week promises to draw hundreds of prospective investors , who can be expected to channel tens of billions of dollars into the market in the next few years . `` last year , there were only several big investors who were interested , '' says kinji kato , a vice president at the international arm of nomura securities co . `` this year , some investors are changing their policies and investing a lot . '' ultimately , he says 0 , strong demand could help to drive down interest rates on mortgage securities . at the moment , nomura is the only japanese institution authorized to act as a primary seller of fannie mae instruments . but other japanese institutions say privately that they are considering asking to join the 59-dealer selling group . these securities are attractive to japanese investors for three reasons . first , they are safe . while they are n't backed by the full faith and credit of the u.s. government , as treasury bonds are , it is widely assumed that the government would support them if necessary . -lrb- u.s. treasury bonds are still the dollar-denominated investment of choice for long-term japanese investors -rrb- . second , they are liquid . the secondary market in federally backed mortgage securities now exceeds $ 900 billion , or nearly half of the $ 2.2 trillion in u.s. residential mortgages issued . third , they offer high yields . at the moment , some offer as much as 1.6 to 1.8 percentage points over treasury securities of similar maturities . but there is a risk , which the japanese discovered when they first dipped their toes into the market nearly five years ago . since most mortgages can be prepaid or refinanced at any time , issuers of mortgage securities retain the right to buy back their bonds before maturity . that 's a headache for long-term investors , since it forces them to reinvest their money -- usually at lower rates than the original mortgage securities carried . `` two or three years ago , the problem was that people did n't understand the prepayment risk , '' says nomura 's mr. kato . `` so they were surprised and very disappointed by prepayment . '' compounding the trouble to japanese investors , mortgage securities pay interest monthly , since most mortgages require homeowners to make monthly payments . but japanese institutional investors are used to quarterly or semiannual payments on their investments , so the monthly cash flow posed administrative problems . as a result , japanese investors steered clear of the mortgage securities . but they did n't lose touch with the u.s. issuers . since 1985 , japanese investors have bought nearly 80 % of $ 10 billion in fannie mae corporate debt issued to foreigners , money that fannie mae uses to buy mortgages from u.s. banks . and japanese investors took up nearly all of two $ 200 million real estate mortgage investment conduits , a kind of collateralized mortgage obligation , that were offered to foreigners this year . in addition , further packaging of mortgage-backed securities , such as blackstone 's fund , have reduced the effects of prepayment risk and automatically reinvest monthly payments so institutions do n't have to . freddie mac for years has offered a so-called participation certificate that guarantees 0 it wo n't be prepaid for a set number of years and offers semiannual payments .