on an office wall of the senate intelligence committee hangs a quote from chairman david boren , `` do n't hold your ticket 'til the show 's over . '' he once used that line in a closed-door meeting on panama , meaning 0 do n't shrink from taking action against manuel noriega . so how did a good senator like this end up approving a policy that required the u.s. to warn mr. noriega of any coup plot against him ? `` i agree , it 's ridiculous , '' says mr. boren , and indeed by now ridiculous may be the only way 0 to describe how the u.s. decides to take -- or rather , not to take -- covert action . george bush disclosed the policy last week by reading it to gop senators , perhaps as a way of shifting blame for the panama fiasco to congress . but the broader truth is more complicated -- and dismaying . the policy was contained in an exchange of letters last october between the senate intelligence committee and the cia and national security council . staff lawyers for both sides were busy agreeing with one another about what the u.s. could not do to oust the panamanian thug . they simply got carried away with interpreting what the executive order banning assassinations really meant . mr. boren himself did n't discover the warn-your-enemy nuance until mr. bush told him privately at the white house last week . it 's ironic that david boren should be in the center of this mire . a former oklahoma governor , he 's a thoughtful defender of presidential powers in foreign policy . he 's a rare democratic hawk . he 's the senator most like arthur vandenberg , the gop senator from michigan who worked to forge a bipartisan foreign policy in the 1940s . `` vandenberg and rayburn are heroes of mine , '' mr. boren says , referring as well to sam rayburn , the democratic house speaker who cooperated with president eisenhower . `` they allowed this country to be credible . i really want to see that happen again . '' if this were 1949 , mr. boren might even succeed . but in 1989 most senators have other ideas . last july , his committee rejected a reagan administration plan to support a coup in panama . ohio democrat howard metzenbaum refused to support any plan that might get people hurt , a charming notion for a great power . maine republican william cohen said 0 the plan might violate the assassination ban . so the administration dropped it . by october , when the committee rejected a much more modest covert proposal , even the administration was agreeing 0 little should be done . mr. boren does n't think 0 all this influenced the failed coup this month , but he does concede that congress has made mistakes . `` in the aftermath of vietnam , in the aftermath of iran-contra , i can understand 0 some people might think that if they plan a coup , they have to bring their lawyers , '' he says . but even mr. boren defends congressional oversight . writing in the harvard international review , he says that his committee approves covert operations only when there 's a `` consensus . '' so what does consensus mean ? `` it does n't mean unanimous , '' he insists , though he implies 0 it means a bipartisan majority . `` the sustainability of u.s. foreign policy is essential , '' he explains . `` why was containment so successful ? because it had bipartisan support . '' mr. boren is confusing consensus on general principles with agreement on specific actions . elliott abrams , a veteran of intelligence committee debates , doubts that even grenada or the libyan raid would have taken place if `` consensus '' had been required . vandenberg and rayburn were wise enough to leave specific operations to presidents ; modern senators , mr. boren notwithstanding , are less modest . the result is that the senate committee has what amounts to veto power over every covert action . `` i would n't say 0 it 's quite a veto , '' mr. boren demurs . but would n't a president who acted despite senate objections be taking grave political risks ? `` he would , '' agrees the chairman . `` but that is something 0 the president ought to know before he goes ahead . '' mr. boren even spies a silver lining . he figures 0 the episode will help `` clarify any ambiguities '' between the committee and administration . he points to a letter on his desk , his second in a week from president bush , saying that they `` do n't disagree . '' more broadly , mr. boren hopes that panama will shock washington out of its fear of using military power . `` maybe this will jolt us out of the post-vietnam syndrome that we never are prepared to use force , '' he says . maybe -- if every senator shared the principles of mr. boren . but it 's just as plausible to argue that if even david boren can get mired in this sort of mess , the problem goes beyond legal interpretation . maybe the problem is a political system that wo n't act without an `` exchange of letters , '' that insists on running foreign policy by committee , that treats a president as just another guy at the table . the reply of the metzenbaums and cohens is that we ca n't abolish these oversight committees because we 've seen too many abuses of executive power . but panama illustrates that their substitute is a system that produces an absurd gridlock . the lawyers are now in charge of our national security . in panama , the u.s. interests at stake were happily minor ; the only people killed were foreigners hapless enough to trust american will . americans may not be so lucky the next time .