securities and exchange commission chairman richard breeden told a congressional subcommittee that he would consider imposing `` circuit breakers '' to halt program trading at volatile times . mr. breeden , in his first testimony to congress since taking the sec post , said 0 the agency is studying the friday the 13th market plunge , including how current circuit breakers affected the market that day and the following monday . after the study , the sec would be willing to consider adding new circuit breakers or fine-tuning the current ones , he added 0 . circuit breakers , designed to give the markets a breather in cases of sharp price movements , curb trading of futures or stocks at various trigger points . at certain points during the friday the 13th drop , circuit breakers kicked in on the futures market , slowing trading at times . a circuit breaker that would have closed down the new york stock exchange was n't tripped . rep. edward markey -lrb- d. , mass. -rrb- , chairman of the house telecommunications and finance subcommittee , is pushing the idea of a circuit breaker for computer-driven program trading in hopes 0 that would curb `` turmoil '' in the marketplace . he argued that program-trading by roughly 15 big institutions is pushing around the markets and scaring individual investors . mr. breeden did n't reject the proposal . after the sec study of the drop is completed , he said 0 , `` i 'm perfectly happy to work with this committee ... in identifying whether we need other devices , '' such as a program-trading curb . mr. breeden backed most of the provisions in a market-reform bill that the sec brought to the subcommittee last year under then-chairman david ruder . the measure is expected to move through this congress . but the new chairman vehemently opposed a provision in the bill that would give the agency the right to close the markets at times of stress . mr. breeden contended that uncertainty over when the sec might act could worsen volatility in the markets . he argued that the current circuit-breaker system allows investors to know `` precisely when and where any trading interruptions will occur and how long they will last . '' mr. breeden offered strong support for two other provisions in the bill . one would force brokerage houses to provide the sec detailed information about loans made by their holding companies . such loans often are used to finance leveraged buy-outs , and the agency is worried that a sharp market drop could create capital problems for the firms . he also backed a rule 0 to require large traders to report transactions on a systematic basis . that information , he argued 0 , is critical to reconstructing sharp market moves , such as the one nearly two weeks ago .