in a blow to france 's rafale jet fighter , the french navy for the first time publicly stated its desire to buy 15 mcdonnell douglas corp. f-18 hornets to defend its aircraft carriers . the statement is likely to sharpen the debate within france 's military establishment over the rafale , which is made by avions marcel dassault-breguet aviation sa . in an interview in the navy 's official weekly magazine cols bleus , the navy 's second-in-command , adm. yves goupil , said 0 the navy still intends to buy 86 rafales as scheduled in the late 1990s and early 21st century . the air force is to take at least 250 more . adm. goupil said 0 the navy ca n't wait until 1998 , when the naval rafale becomes available , to replace its obsolete fleet of american-made crusaders , used since the 1950s to protect carriers from attack . rather than renovate the crusaders , which dassault is proposing to do for around 1.8 billion french francs -lrb- $ 286.6 million -rrb- , adm. goupil said 0 the navy wants to buy used f-18s from the u.s. navy . officially , the statement is n't an attack on the rafale . adm. goupil said that when the f-18s wear out , the navy is prepared to take rafales to replace them . but unofficially , senior navy officials sharply criticize the rafale as an air force plane ill-suited to carrier use . although they never said so publicly , they have made no secret of their preference for the f-18 on operational grounds . adm. goupil 's comments are likely to inflame the broader dispute within the military establishment here over the role of dassault . although government-controlled , dassault still is run by the founder 's son , chairman serge dassault , who has fiercely protected his company 's independence . the rafale project is the result of france 's inability jointly to develop a plane with other countries , and french officials question whether the state can continue paying for expensive independent programs . so far , mr. dassault has resisted pressure to change . what brought the naval issue to a head is that the crusaders are literally falling apart , without any immediate plan to replace them . adm. goupil , a former crusader squadron leader , said that the last other country 0 to use crusaders , the philippines , retired its last ones two years ago . a french crusader crash a few months ago heightened pressure for new planes here . adm. goupil rejected dassault 's proposal to renovate the crusaders , saying 0 the cost was impossible 0 to estimate . even modernized , he said , the crusaders represent an obsolete and dangerous protection for the aircraft carriers 0 france has sent to meet such crises as the wars in lebanon and the persian gulf . defense minister jean-pierre chevenement told a meeting of the anglo-american press association that the question of modernizing the crusaders or buying used f18s is a `` political '' decision that he will make in due time .