a consortium of private investors operating as ljh funding co. said 0 it has made a $ 409 million cash bid for most of l.j. hooker corp. 's real-estate and shopping-center holdings . the $ 409 million bid includes the assumption of an estimated $ 300 million in secured liabilities on those properties , according to those making the bid . the group is led by jay shidler , chief executive officer of shidler investment corp. in honolulu , and a. boyd simpson , chief executive of the atlanta-based simpson organization inc . mr. shidler 's company specializes in commercial real-estate investment and claims to have $ 1 billion in assets ; mr. simpson is a developer and a former senior executive of l.j. hooker . `` the assets are good , but they require more money and management '' than can be provided in l.j. hooker 's current situation , said 0 mr. simpson in an interview . `` hooker 's philosophy was to build and sell . we want to build and hold . '' l.j. hooker , based in atlanta , is operating with protection from its creditors under chapter 11 of the u.s. bankruptcy code . its parent company , hooker corp. of sydney , australia , is currently being managed by a court-appointed provisional liquidator . sanford sigoloff , chief executive of l.j. hooker , said yesterday in a statement that he has not yet seen the bid but that he would review it and bring it to the attention of the creditors committee . the $ 409 million bid is estimated by mr. simpson as representing 75 % of the value of all hooker real-estate holdings in the u.s. . not included in the bid are bonwit teller or b. altman & co. , l.j. hooker 's department-store chains . the offer covers the massive 1.8 million-square-foot forest fair mall in cincinnati , the 800,000 square-foot richland fashion mall in columbia , s.c. , and the 700,000 square-foot thornton town center mall in thornton , colo . the thornton mall opened sept. 19 with a bigg 's hypermarket as its anchor ; the columbia mall is expected to open nov. 15 . other hooker properties included are a 20-story office tower in midtown atlanta , expected to be completed next february ; vacant land sites in florida and ohio ; l.j. hooker international , the commercial real-estate brokerage company that once did business as merrill lynch commercial real estate , plus other shopping centers . the consortium was put together by hoare govett , the london-based investment banking company that is a subsidiary of security pacific corp . `` we do n't anticipate any problems in raising the funding for the bid , '' said allan campbell , the head of mergers and acquisitions at hoare govett , in an interview . hoare govett is acting as the consortium 's investment bankers . according to people familiar with the consortium , the bid was code-named project klute , a reference to the film `` klute '' in which a prostitute played by actress jane fonda is saved from a psychotic businessman by a police officer named john klute . l.j. hooker was a small home-building company based in atlanta in 1979 when mr. simpson was hired to push it into commercial development . the company grew modestly until 1986 , when a majority position in hooker corp. was acquired by australian developer george herscu , currently hooker 's chairman . mr. herscu proceeded to launch an ambitious , but ill-fated , $ 1 billion acquisition binge that included bonwit teller and b. altman & co. , as well as majority positions in merksamer jewelers , a sacramento chain ; sakowitz inc. , the houston-based retailer , and parisian inc. , the southeast department-store chain . eventually mr. simpson and mr. herscu had a falling out over the direction of the company , and mr. simpson said 0 he resigned in 1988 . since then , hooker corp. has sold its interest in the parisian chain back to parisian 's management and is currently attempting to sell the b. altman & co. chain . in addition , robert sakowitz , chief executive of the sakowitz chain , is seeking funds 0 to buy out the hooker interest in his company . the merksamer chain is currently being offered for sale by first boston corp . reached in honolulu , mr. shidler said that he believes 0 the various hooker malls can become profitable with new management . `` these are n't mature assets , but they have the potential 0 to be so , '' said mr. shidler . `` managed properly , and with a long-term outlook , these can become investment-grade quality properties .