canada , which is preparing to speed up tariff cuts with the u.s. , recorded a 47 % narrowing in its trade surplus with the u.s. in august , statistics canada , a federal agency , reported 0 . u.s. exports to canada jumped 11.2 % in august from july while u.s. imports from canada rose only 2.7 % . as a result , canada 's trade surplus with the u.s. narrowed to c$ 656.5 million -lrb- us$ 558 million -rrb- in august from c$ 1.23 billion -lrb- us$ 1.04 billion -rrb- in july . u.s. exports benefited in august from heavy canadian spending on new plant and equipment and a pickup in canadian auto demand , canadian officials said 0 . the u.s. and canada , which do more trade than any other pair of nations , are to meet next month to arrange an acceleration of planned tariff cuts under the u.s.-canada free trade agreement . industries in both countries have requested a speedup of tariff cuts on hundreds of products . some tariffs were eliminated when the trade pact took effect jan. 1 . the remainder were to be phased out in five or 10 annual installments , with all tariffs eliminated by january 1998 . the two countries aim to reach an agreement by early december on a package of accelerated tariff cuts that would take effect early next year . canadian officials said 0 the trade pact has kindled an export interest among many small canadian companies that previously had little or no foreign sales . for such businessmen , the canadian government is organizing 55 missions this year to u.s. states bordering on canada . the businessmen are introduced to potential agents and distributors and instructed in trade procedures . the u.s. commerce department is planning to try out similar trips on u.s. businessmen in coming months under its canada first ! outreach program . participants in the u.s. missions to canada are to be assisted by members of the service corps of retired executives , a volunteer group , in dealing with their export challenges . the canadian government also has recently opened new trade offices in san diego ; san juan , puerto rico ; miami ; princeton , n.j. , and denver , bringing the total number of such canadian offices in the u.s. to 27 . the u.s. has six trade promotion offices in canada . canada 's export effort has been blunted by robust home market demand and by an 18 % appreciation of the canadian dollar against its u.s. counterpart in the past three years that has made canadian goods more costly in the u.s. . canada 's trade surplus with all countries narrowed to c$ 203.5 million in august from c$ 528.3 million in july , statistics canada said 0 .