no , it was n't black monday . but while the new york stock exchange did n't fall apart friday as the dow jones industrial average plunged 190.58 points -- most of it in the final hour -- it barely managed to stay this side of chaos . some `` circuit breakers '' installed after the october 1987 crash failed their first test , traders say 0 , unable to cool the selling panic in both stocks and futures . the 49 stock specialist firms on the big board floor -- the buyers and sellers of last resort who were criticized after the 1987 crash -- once again could n't handle the selling pressure . big investment banks refused to step up to the plate to support the beleaguered floor traders by buying big blocks of stock , traders say 0 . heavy selling of standard & poor 's 500-stock index futures in chicago relentlessly beat stocks downward . seven big board stocks -- ual , amr , bankamerica , walt disney , capital cities\/abc , philip morris and pacific telesis group -- stopped trading and never resumed . the finger-pointing has already begun . `` the equity market was illiquid . once again -lcb- the specialists -rcb- were not able to handle the imbalances on the floor of the new york stock exchange , '' said christopher pedersen , senior vice president at twenty-first securities corp . countered 0 james maguire , chairman of specialists henderson brothers inc. : `` it is easy to say 0 the specialist is n't doing his job . when the dollar is in a free-fall , even central banks ca n't stop it . speculators are calling for a degree of liquidity that is not there in the market . '' many money managers and some traders had already left their offices early friday afternoon on a warm autumn day -- because the stock market was so quiet . then in a lightning plunge , the dow jones industrials in barely an hour surrendered about a third of their gains this year , chalking up a 190.58-point , or 6.9 % , loss on the day in gargantuan trading volume . final-hour trading accelerated to 108.1 million shares , a record for the big board . at the end of the day , 251.2 million shares were traded . the dow jones industrials closed at 2569.26 . the dow 's decline was second in point terms only to the 508-point black monday crash that occurred oct. 19 , 1987 . in percentage terms , however , the dow 's dive was the 12th-worst ever and the sharpest since the market fell 156.83 , or 8 % , a week after black monday . the dow fell 22.6 % on black monday . shares of ual , the parent of united airlines , were extremely active all day friday , reacting to news and rumors about the proposed $ 6.79 billion buy-out of the airline by an employee-management group . wall street 's takeover-stock speculators , or `` risk arbitragers , '' had placed unusually large bets that a takeover would succeed and ual stock would rise . at 2:43 p.m. edt , came the sickening news : the big board was halting trading in ual , `` pending news . '' on the exchange floor , `` as soon as ual stopped trading , we braced for a panic , '' said 0 one top floor trader . several traders could be seen shaking their heads when the news flashed . for weeks , the market had been nervous about takeovers , after campeau corp. 's cash crunch spurred concern about the prospects for future highly leveraged takeovers . and 10 minutes after the ual trading halt came news that the ual group could n't get financing for its bid . at this point , the dow was down about 35 points . the market crumbled . arbitragers could n't dump their ual stock -- but they rid themselves of nearly every `` rumor '' stock 0 they had . for example , their selling caused trading halts to be declared in usair group , which closed down 3 7\/8 to 41 1\/2 , delta air lines , which fell 7 3\/4 to 69 1\/4 , and philips industries , which sank 3 to 21 1\/2 . these stocks eventually reopened . but as panic spread , speculators began to sell blue-chip stocks such as philip morris and international business machines to offset their losses . when trading was halted in philip morris , the stock was trading at 41 , down 3 3\/8 , while ibm closed 5 5\/8 lower at 102 . selling snowballed because of waves of automatic `` stop-loss '' orders , which are triggered by computer when prices fall to certain levels . most of the stock selling pressure came from wall street professionals , including computer-guided program traders . traders said 0 most of their major institutional investors , on the other hand , sat tight . now , at 3:07 , one of the market 's post-crash `` reforms '' took hold as the s&p 500 futures contract had plunged 12 points , equivalent to around a 100-point drop in the dow industrials . under an agreement signed by the big board and the chicago mercantile exchange , trading was temporarily halted in chicago . after the trading halt in the s&p 500 pit in chicago , waves of selling continued to hit stocks themselves on the big board , and specialists continued to notch prices down . as a result , the link between the futures and stock markets ripped apart . without the guidepost of stock-index futures -- the barometer of where traders think 0 the overall stock market is headed -- many traders were afraid to trust stock prices quoted on the big board . the futures halt was even assailed by big board floor traders . `` it screwed things up , '' said one major specialist . this confusion effectively halted one form of program trading , stock index arbitrage , that closely links the futures and stock markets , and has been blamed by some for the market 's big swings . -lrb- in a stock-index arbitrage sell program , traders buy or sell big baskets of stocks and offset the trade in futures to lock in a price difference . -rrb- `` when the airline information came through , it cracked every model 0 we had for the marketplace , '' said a managing director at one of the largest program-trading firms . `` we did n't even get a chance to do the programs 0 we wanted to do . '' but stocks kept falling . the dow industrials were down 55 points at 3 p.m. before the futures-trading halt . at 3:30 p.m. , at the end of the `` cooling off '' period , the average was down 114.76 points . meanwhile , during the the s&p trading halt , s&p futures sell orders began piling up , while stocks in new york kept falling sharply . big board chairman john j. phelan said yesterday 0 the circuit breaker `` worked well mechanically . i just think 0 it 's nonproductive at this point to get into a debate if index arbitrage would have helped or hurt things . '' under another post-crash system , big board president richard grasso -lrb- mr. phelan was flying to bangkok as the market was falling -rrb- was talking on an `` inter-exchange hot line '' to the other exchanges , the securities and exchange commission and the federal reserve board . he camped out at a high-tech nerve center on the floor of the big board , where he could watch updates on prices and pending stock orders . at about 3:30 p.m. edt , s&p futures resumed trading , and for a brief time the futures and stock markets started to come back in line . buyers stepped in to the futures pit . but the build-up of s&p futures sell orders weighed on the market , and the link with stocks began to fray again . at about 3:45 , the s&p market careened to still another limit , of 30 points down , and trading was locked again . futures traders say 0 the s&p was signaling that the dow could fall as much as 200 points . during this time , small investors began ringing their brokers , wondering whether another crash had begun . at prudential-bache securities inc. , which is trying to cater to small investors , some demoralized brokers thought 0 this would be the final confidence-crusher . that 's when george l. ball , chairman of the prudential insurance co. of america unit , took to the internal intercom system to declare that the plunge was only `` mechanical . '' `` i have a hunch that this particular decline today is something ` more ado about less . ' it would be my inclination to advise clients not to sell , to look for an opportunity to buy , '' mr. ball told the brokers . at merrill lynch & co. , the nation 's biggest brokerage firm , a news release was prepared headlined `` merrill lynch comments on market drop . '' the release cautioned that `` there are significant differences between the current environment and that of october 1987 '' and that there are still `` attractive investment opportunities '' in the stock market . however , jeffrey b. lane , president of shearson lehman hutton inc. , said that friday 's plunge is `` going to set back '' relations with customers , `` because it reinforces the concern of volatility . and i think 0 a lot of people will harp on program trading . it 's going to bring the debate right back to the forefront . '' as the dow average ground to its final 190.58 loss friday , the s&p pit stayed locked at its 30-point trading limit . jeffrey yass of program trader susquehanna investment group said 0 2,000 s&p contracts were for sale on the close , the equivalent of $ 330 million in stock . but there were no buyers . while friday 's debacle involved mainly professional traders rather than investors , it left the market vulnerable to continued selling this morning , traders said 0 . stock-index futures contracts settled at much lower prices than indexes of the stock market itself . at those levels , stocks are set up to be hammered by index arbitragers , who lock in profits by buying futures when futures prices fall , and simultaneously sell off stocks . but nobody knows at what level the futures and stocks will open today . the de-linkage between the stock and futures markets friday will undoubtedly cause renewed debate about whether wall street is properly prepared for another crash situation . the big board 's mr. grasso said , 0 `` our systemic performance was good . '' but the exchange will `` look at the performance of all specialists in all stocks . obviously we 'll take a close look at any situation in which we think 0 the dealer-community obligations were n't met , '' he said . -lrb- see related story : `` fed ready to inject big funds '' -- wsj oct. 16 , 1989 -rrb- but specialists complain privately that just as in the 1987 crash , the `` upstairs '' firms -- big investment banks that support the market by trading big blocks of stock -- stayed on the sidelines during friday 's blood-letting . mr. phelan said , 0 `` it will take another day or two '' to analyze who was buying and selling friday .