british aerospace plc and france 's thomson-csf s.a. said 0 they are nearing an agreement to merge their guided-missile divisions , greatly expanding collaboration between the two defense contractors . the 50-50 joint venture , which may be dubbed eurodynamics , would have combined annual sales of at least # 1.4 billion -lrb- $ 2.17 billion -rrb- and would be among the world 's largest missile makers . after two years of talks , plans for the venture are sufficiently advanced for the companies to seek french and british government clearance . the companies hope for a final agreement by year-end . the venture would strengthen the rapidly growing ties between the two companies , and help make them a leading force in european defense contracting . in recent months , a string of cross-border mergers and joint ventures have reshaped the once-balkanized world of european arms manufacture . already , british aerospace and french government-controlled thomson-csf collaborate on a british missile contract and on an air-traffic control radar system . just last week they announced 0 they may make a joint bid to buy ferranti international signal plc , a smaller british defense contractor rocked by alleged accounting fraud at a u.s. unit . the sudden romance of british aerospace and thomson-csf -- traditionally bitter competitors for middle east and third world weapons contracts -- is stirring controversy in western europe 's defense industry . most threatened by closer british aerospace-thomson ties would be their respective national rivals , including matra s.a. in france and britain 's general electric co. plc . but neither matra nor gec -- unrelated to stamford , conn.-based general electric co. -- are sitting quietly by as their competitors join forces . yesterday , a source close to gec confirmed that his company may join the ferranti fight , as part of a possible consortium that would bid against british aerospace and thomson-csf . companies with which gec has had talks about a possible joint ferranti bid include matra , britain 's dowty group plc , west germany 's daimler-benz ag , and france 's dassault group . but it may be weeks before gec and its potential partners decide whether to bid , the source indicated 0 . gec plans first to study ferranti 's financial accounts , which auditors recently said 0 included # 215 million in fictitious contracts at a u.s. unit , international signal & control group , with which ferranti merged last year . also , any gec bid might be blocked by british antitrust regulators ; ferranti is gec 's main competitor on several key defense-electronics contracts , and its purchase by gec may heighten british defense ministry worries about concentration in the country 's defense industry . a consortium bid , however , would diminish gec 's direct role in ferranti and might consequently appease ministry officials . a british aerospace spokeswoman appeared unperturbed by the prospect of a fight with gec for ferranti : `` competition is the name of the game , '' she said . at least one potential gec partner , matra , insists 0 it is n't interested in ferranti . `` we have nothing 0 to say about this affair , which does n't concern us , '' a matra official said sunday . the missile venture , the british aerospace spokeswoman said 0 , is a needed response to the `` new environment '' in defense contracting . for both thomson and british aerospace , earnings in their home markets have come under pressure from increasingly tight-fisted defense ministries ; and middle east sales , a traditional mainstay for both companies ' exports , have been hurt by five years of weak oil prices . the venture 's importance for thomson is great . thomson feels 0 the future of its defense business depends on building cooperation with other europeans . the european defense industry is consolidating ; for instance , west germany 's siemens ag recently joined gec in a takeover of britain 's plessey co. , and daimler-benz agreed to buy messerschmitt-boelkow blohm g.m.b . h . in missiles , thomson is already overshadowed by british aerospace and by its home rival , france 's aerospatiale s.a. ; to better compete , thomson officials say 0 , they need a partnership . to justify 50-50 ownership of the planned venture , thomson would make a cash payment to british aerospace . annual revenue of british aerospace 's missile business is about # 950 million , a thomson spokesman said 0 . british aerospace 's chief missile products include its 17-year-old family of rapier surface-to-air missiles . thomson missile products , with about half british aerospace 's annual revenue , include the crotale surface-to-air missile family .