general motors corp. wants to buy as much as 15 % of jaguar plc , marking its first salvo in a possible full-scale battle against ford motor co. for control of the british car maker . gm sought u.s. antitrust clearance last week to purchase more than $ 15 million worth of jaguar shares but does n't own any yet , according to gm officials here and at the company 's detroit headquarters . the no. 1 u.s. auto maker then wrote jaguar that it intends `` to go to that 15 % '' level once it wins the u.s. clearance to go beyond $ 15 million , a jaguar spokesman said 0 yesterday . the gm move follows tuesday 's declaration by ford , which holds an unwelcome 12.45 % stake in jaguar , that it is prepared to bid for the entire company . gm is close to completing a friendly deal with jaguar that is likely to involve an eventual 30 % stake and joint manufacturing ventures . speculative investors , betting on an imminent clash between ford and gm , pushed up jaguar 's share price five pence -lrb- eight u.s. cents -rrb- to a near-record 720 pence -lrb- $ 11.60 -rrb- in late trading on london 's stock exchange yesterday . since tuesday , the shares have gained nearly 4 % . but an all-out bidding war between the world 's top auto giants for britain 's leading luxury-car maker seems unlikely . `` we will not go over a certain level , '' said david n. mccammon , ford 's vice president for finance , at a news conference yesterday in dearborn , mich . `` there 's some price at which we 'd stop bidding . '' he would n't specify what it was . and powerful political pressures may convince the conservative government to keep its so-called golden share , which limits any individual holding to 15 % , until the restriction expires on dec. 31 , 1990 . `` i really do n't see the government doing something that jaguar does n't want over the next 14 months , '' said kenneth warren , a conservative member of parliament and chairman of the select committee on trade and industry in britain 's house of commons . `` the golden share is a single share , but it is the magic share . '' the government retained the single share after selling its stake in jaguar in 1984 -- part of a nationalistic practice of protecting former government-owned enterprises to deflect criticism of privatization . the 15 % restriction covers any would-be suitor , british or foreign . ford is willing to bid for 100 % of jaguar 's shares if both the government and jaguar shareholders agree to relax the anti-takeover barrier prematurely . as jaguar 's biggest holder and britain 's biggest car maker , ford could turn up the heat by convening a special shareholders ' meeting and urging holders to drop the limits early . ford might succeed because many shareholders are speculators keen for a full bid or institutional investors unhappy over jaguar management 's handling of its current financial difficulties . the government probably would n't give in readily to a hostile foray by ford , however . it has relinquished a golden share only once before -- during british petroleum co. 's # 2.5 billion -lrb- $ 4 billion -rrb- takeover of britoil plc in 1988 . in wooing british lawmakers , gm has pointed out that its willingness to settle for a minority stake would keep jaguar british-owned and independent . this week , the u.s. auto giant paid for 10 house of commons members and two house of lords members to fly to detroit and tour its operations there . while the visit was unrelated to jaguar , gm chairman roger smith answered the legislators ' questions about it over lunch tuesday . he said 0 jaguar `` should n't be smothered by anyone else , '' recalled 0 one participant . politics also influences the government 's thinking on the anti-takeover restriction . the conservatives do n't dare jeopardize marginal tory seats in coventry , where jaguar has headquarters , nor can the government easily back down on promised protection for a privatized company while it proceeds with controversial plans to privatize most of britain 's water and electricity industries . prime minister margaret thatcher might , however , be receptive to any request by jaguar chairman sir john egan for the restriction 's early removal to let gm amass more than 15 % or mount a friendly suitor bid against ford . in the end , sir john -- rather than the government or jaguar shareholders -- may hold the key that unlocks the golden share .