the dollar finished lower yesterday , after tracking another rollercoaster session on wall street . concern about the volatile u.s. stock market had faded in recent sessions , and traders appeared content to let the dollar languish in a narrow range until tomorrow , when the preliminary report on third-quarter u.s. gross national product is released . but seesaw gyrations in the dow jones industrial average yesterday put wall street back in the spotlight and inspired market participants to bid the u.s. unit lower . ual 's decision to remain an independent company sent share prices tumbling . by midmorning , the djia had plunged 80 points and foreign-exchange dealers quickly drove the dollar down . when the djia modestly rebounded , the dollar bounced back in choppy dealings but ended the day below the levels of late monday . stock prices , meanwhile , posted significant gains in later trading and closed down by only 3.69 points on the day . some dealers said that the market 's strong reaction to wall street reflects a general uneasiness about the dollar . they added that the djia 's swift drop proved an easy excuse 0 for the market to drive the u.s. currency in the direction 0 it was already headed . in late new york trading yesterday , the dollar was quoted at 1.8355 marks , down from 1.8470 marks monday , and at 141.45 yen , down from 141.90 yen late monday . sterling was quoted at $ 1.6055 , up from $ 1.6030 late monday . in tokyo wednesday , the u.s. currency opened for trading at 141.57 yen , down from tuesday 's tokyo close of 142.10 yen . tom trettien , a vice president with banque paribas in new york , sees a break in the dollar 's long-term upward trend , a trend that began in january 1988 . he argues that the dollar is now `` moving sideways , '' adding that `` the next leg could be the beginning of a longer term bearish phase . '' analysts peg the dollar 's recent weakness to an underlying slowdown in the u.s. economy , highlighted by recent economic data , particularly a surprisingly sharp widening in the august u.s. trade gap . they also point out that narrowing interest-rate differentials between the u.s. and its major trading partners tend to make the u.s. currency less attractive to foreign investors . despite several spurts of dollar trading , it was noted that mark-yen cross trade grabbed much of the market 's attention . following the dive in u.s. stocks , the mark has strengthened more than its major counterparts . traders attribute the mark 's surge to a robust west german economy and higher rate differentials . but , they add that the mark 's strength is in part a reflection of a shift away from u.s. assets by japanese investors into west german investments . `` the question remains : how much can the west german market absorb ? '' says one senior dealer . some dealers say that bank of japan governor satoshi sumita 's reassurance that japanese monetary policy wo n't be changed for the time being has given investors an added excuse 0 to push the yen down even further against the mark . despite the yen 's weakness with respect to the mark , tokyo traders say 0 they do n't expect the bank of japan to take any action to support the japanese currency on that front . meanwhile , sterling slumped on news that the united kingdom posted a wider-than-expected trade deficit in september . the news also knocked the british unit to below 2.95 marks in london , but a bout of short-covering helped sterling recoup some of its earlier losses . on the commodity exchange in new york , gold for current delivery jumped $ 3.20 to $ 370.20 an ounce . the close was the highest since aug. 15 . estimated volume was a light two million ounces . in early trading in hong kong wednesday , gold was quoted at $ 368.25 an ounce .