house and senate conferees agreed to continue production of grumman corp. 's f-14 and to provide more than $ 3.8 billion for the strategic defense initiative during the current fiscal year . industry officials and congressional aides said that the main points of a compromise defense authorization bill , hammered out during a flurry of private meetings over the past few days , provide a face-saving compromise for both the white house and house democrats . although conferees are still putting the finishing touches on the package , the final agreement could be announced as early as tomorrow . an announcement is more likely next week , though . president bush and other supporters of sdi will be able to take credit for blocking house efforts to significantly cut the program to develop a space-based antimissile system , which already has cost some $ 17 billion . senate armed services committee chairman sam nunn -lrb- d. , ga . -rrb- and other senate conferees have opposed the house cuts , stalling for almost two months action on a number of big-ticket items in the pentagon 's budget . the senate voted to authorize $ 4.5 billion for sdi spending in the current fiscal year , but the house , reflecting a dramatic erosion of support for the program , earmarked only $ 3.1 billion . despite the widening gap between the two sides , conferees eventually followed the pattern set in previous years by opting to roughly split the difference . that would hold spending on the program at about the previous year 's level . the decision to keep the embattled f-14 's production line running for at least another year is an important victory for the house , and especially for rep. les aspin -lrb- d. , wis . -rrb- . as the head of the house conferees , rep. aspin has been under intense pressure from his colleagues to reject senate provisions that would have abruptly cut further f-14 production . the package `` provides a temporary , golden parachute for grumman , '' according to one congressional aide familiar with the closed-door bargaining . but as part of the overall agreement , grumman and its outspoken supporters on capitol hill effectively will be precluded from reopening the emotional issue in the debate over next year 's budget . defense secretary dick cheney and most senators contend that the navy 's f-14 is too expensive in an era of shrinking pentagon budgets . but the plane boasts a strong core of support in the house , where members are intent on saving grumman jobs and are worried about potential shortages of carrier-based aircraft by the late 1990s . conferees also agreed to pentagon requests to earmark a total of nearly $ 1 billion for work on both mobile mx and midgetman nuclear missiles , according to congressional aides . and lawmakers are putting the finishing touches on a compromise that would give the air force nearly all of the $ 2.4 billion 0 it wants for production of northrop corp. 's radar-eluding b-2 bombers , which cost $ 530 million apiece . the final b-2 agreement is certain to require detailed testing and verification of the bomber 's capabilities , but congressional aides said 0 the accord wo n't include a house-passed provision that would have withheld production funds until congress approves a cheaper , scaled-down version of the $ 70 billion fleet of 132 b-2s envisioned by the pentagon .