this seems to be the season for revivals in chicago . though the cubs ' championship season ended with the national league playoffs , a revival of the organic theater 's production of `` bleacher bums , '' a play in nine innings set in the wrigley field bleachers , continues within spitting distance of the ballpark . revivals of a different sort also are being offered by our two major theater troupes , the goodman and steppenwolf . each is more problematic than an unexpected divisional baseball championship , but both help explain why chicago remains a vital center of this country 's regional theater movement . the goodman is offering a modernized version of moliere 's `` the misanthrope '' through nov. 4 . the original is a comedy about alceste , a man who sees falseness and vanity in everyone except himself . he is the jealous friend of philinte , and the jealous lover of celimene . the play is filled with intrigue , dishonesty and injustice . twenty-five years ago the poet richard wilbur modernized this 17th-century comedy merely by avoiding `` the zounds sort of thing , '' as he wrote in his introduction . otherwise , the scene remained celimene 's house in 1666 . assuming 0 modern audiences readily understand that moliere 's social indictment covers their world as well as 17th-century paris , mr. wilbur concentrated his formidable artistry on rendering the alexandrine french verse into sprightly and theatrical english iambic pentameter . the wilbur translation is remarkable -- well worth a read and even better seen in the theater if you ever have the opportunity . but if you happen to be coming to chicago in the next few weeks , do n't fail to have a look at robert falls 's `` the misanthrope '' at the goodman . if mr. wilbur 's translation is a finely ground lens through which we see the pettiness and corruption of 17th-century paris , mr. falls 's production is a mirror in which we see ourselves . mr. falls , the goodman 's artistic director , took a recent adaptation by neil bartlett and significantly adapted it . mr. bartlett had slimmed moliere 's cast of characters to six and set them in the london media world of thatcherite britain . mr. falls transfers the setting to hollywood , and transforms the characters into what passes for aristocracy there -- agents , producers , actors , writers and sycophants . it works . mr. bartlett managed to more or less maintain moliere 's alexandrine verse form , 12 syllable lines in rhyming couplets . mr. falls kept the form , but americanized it with mr. bartlett 's further help . with a splendid cast led by david darlow as alceste , christina haag as celimene and , especially , william brown as a philinte who plays the hollywood game but harbors authentic values and feelings , the goodman production barrels through an all-night hollywood party with exuberance and wit . if this version , with its references to steven spielberg , spago and `` thirtysomething '' attracts younger audiences who might stay away from the classical version , then messrs. bartlett and falls are justified in abandoning mr. wilbur . a 300-year-old play may be easier 0 to revive than one merely 25 . the steppenwolf theatre company , back from a critical and box office success in london with its adaptation of steinbeck 's `` the grapes of wrath , '' opened the new season with harold pinter 's `` the homecoming , '' first produced by the royal shakespeare company in 1965 . back then , mr. pinter was not only the angry young british playwright , but also the first 0 to use silences and sentence fragments and menacing stares , almost to the exclusion of what we previously understood to be theatrical dialogue . when `` the homecoming '' was first produced on this side of the atlantic , actors and directors were reverential . silences were lengthy -- nobody moved or gestured . nobody smiled onstage , and nobody in the audience was encouraged to laugh . this kind of theater was new to us . also , it was not a funny time over here , what with the vietnam war , the '68 democratic convention , assassinations and riots . but under jerry perry 's direction the current steppenwolf production , scheduled to play through nov. 19 , breaks through the flat and boring ritual that `` the homecoming '' had become . led by a near-perfect performance by alan wilder as max , the father , the play is at once an appalling and hilarious dissection of a family 's rage , bitterness , fear and isolation . encouraged by mr. wilder 's sly grins , embarrassed grimaces and sputtering rages , the audience gets the joke and begins to laugh before the end of the first act . three of the family members , max and his two sons , lenny and joey , live off the flesh : max is a retired butcher , lenny a pimp and joey an aspiring boxer . sam , max 's brother , has escaped the flesh by working as a liveried chauffeur and never seeking a wife . teddy , the eldest of max 's sons , has made the most dramatic escape by becoming a professor of philosophy at an american university . though it 's clearly max 's wife who held sway here until her death , now none of the other male residents of this misbegotten household can challenge max . the play concerns teddy 's homecoming with his wife of six years , ruth . curiously , randall arney as teddy seems the only cast member unable to get beyond the zombie approach to a pinter character . as ruth , moira harris , a large and beautiful woman who may be our next colleen dewhurst , begins almost immediately to overpower each of the men . in the end , teddy returns alone to america , leaving ruth in max 's chair . we have seen her develop within a few hours from a shy and unknown in-law to a goddess of the flesh who will replace the dead mother , and then some . while steppenwolf was in london with `` the grapes of wrath , '' bruce sagan , the president of its board of directors , quietly returned to chicago to buy a piece of real estate in the city 's rapidly reviving north halsted street restaurant and theater district . within a year he hopes 0 steppenwolf will move into a new 500-seat theater on that site . the troupe currently performs in a converted dairy that seats 211 and provides little capacity for staging anything beyond a simple one-set production . `` if we wanted to stage ` death of a salesman , ' `` mr. sagan says , `` willie loman would have to live in a ranch house because of the low ceiling . '' steppenwolf needs the extra seats even more than the fly space . it 's currently forced to turn away many potential subscribers beyond the 13,000 who can be accommodated in its present digs . for all the attention that chicago theater has received during the past decade , not one new building has been devoted to it . mr. sagan , a former publisher and real estate developer , has put together an $ 8 million financial package that includes approximately $ 4 million of tax exempt bonds issued by the state of illinois -lrb- the first time that a state has used its educational facilities authority to support construction of a theater -rrb- , and approximately $ 1 million in grants from the national endowment for the arts , the macarthur foundation , and a few other deep pockets . the rest , he is confident 0 , can be raised . his board members alone have pledged $ 800,000 and he is just beginning to massage local foundations and corporations . mr. sagan compares the importance of steppenwolf with orson welles 's mercury theater in the '30s . but welles 's theater company turned out to have a brief -- one might say a mercurial -- existence . what will mr. sagan do with his new theater building if the allure of hollywood and broadway proves too much for such steppenwolf stalwarts as john malkovich -lrb- `` dangerous liaisons '' -rrb- , joan allen -lrb- `` the heidi chronicles '' -rrb- , and glenne headly -lrb- `` lonesome dove '' -rrb- , and the company crumbles ? `` that 's ok , '' mr. sagan replies . `` let this building be steppenwolf 's legacy to chicago theater . '' mr. henning is a chicago-based law firm management consultant and a writer .