october employment data -- also could turn out to be the most confusing . on the surface , the overall unemployment rate is expected to be little changed from september 's 5.3 % . but the actual head count of non-farm employment payroll jobs is likely to be muddied by the impact of hurricane hugo , strikes , and less-than-perfect seasonal adjustments , economists said 0 . the consensus view calls for an overall job gain of 155,000 compared with september 's 209,000 increase . but the important factory-jobs segment , which last month plunged by 103,000 positions and raised recession fears , is most likely to be skewed by the month 's unusual events . several other reports come before friday 's jobs data , including : the september leading indicators index , new-home sales and october agricultural prices reports due out tomorrow ; the october purchasing managers ' index and september construction spending and manufacturers ' orders on wednesday ; and october chain-store sales on thursday . friday brings the final count on october auto sales . `` the employment report is going to be difficult 0 to interpret , '' said michael englund , economist with mms international , a unit of mcgraw-hill inc. , new york . mr. englund added that next month 's data is n't likely to be much better , because it will be distorted by san francisco 's earthquake . what 's more , he believes 0 seasonal swings in the auto industry this year are n't occurring at the same time as in the past , because of production and pricing differences that are curbing the accuracy of seasonal adjustments built into the employment data . wednesday 's report from the purchasing agents will be watched to see if the index maintains a level below 50 % , as it has for the past couple of months . a reading of less than 50 % indicates an economy that is generally contracting while a reading above 50 % indicates an economy that 's expanding . samuel d. kahan , chief financial economist at kleinwort benson government securities inc. , chicago , said that the purchasers ' report is valuable because it often presents the first inkling of economic data for the month . but he added : `` some people use the purchasers ' index as a leading indicator , some use it as a coincident indicator . but the thing 0 it 's supposed to measure -- manufacturing strength -- it missed altogether last month . '' david wyss , chief financial economist at data resources inc. , boston , said that the purchasers ' index `` does miss occasionally , '' adding : `` when it misses one month it tends to miss the next month , too . '' the consensus view on september leading indicators calls for a gain of 0.3 % , the same as in august . economists said 0 greatly increased consumer optimism , a larger money supply and higher stock prices helped lift the index . all orders-related components , such as consumer-goods orders and building permits , are thought to have been weaker . data resources ' mr. wyss added that he will be keeping a closer eye than ususal on october chain-store sales . usually , october `` is n't a very interesting month -lcb- for retail figures -rcb- because school clothes have been bought and people are waiting for december to buy christmas presents , '' he said 0 . but mr. wyss said 0 he will watch the numbers to get an inkling of whether consumers ' general buying habits may slack off as much as their auto-buying apparently has . he noted that higher gasoline prices will help buoy the october totals . seasonal factors are also expected to have taken their toll on september new-home sales , which are believed to have fallen sharply from august 's 755,000 units . construction spending is believed to have slipped about 0.5 % from august levels , although economists noted 0 the rate probably will pick up in the months ahead in response to hurricane and earthquake damage .