east germans rallied as officials reportedly sought honecker 's ouster . in what was considered the largest protest in the communist state 's 40-year history , at least 120,000 demonstrators marched through the southern city of leipzig to press demands for democratic freedoms , opposition activists said 0 . police did n't intervene . meanwhile , as the first of more than 1,300 east germans trying to flee to the west through poland renounced their citizenship , a west german newspaper reported that regional communist officials demanded the dismissal of hard-line leader honecker . secretary of state baker , in a foreign policy speech , called for the reunification of germany , saying 0 it was the `` legitimate right '' of the german people . gorbachev blamed the soviet union 's press for contributing to the nation 's mounting problems . at a meeting friday , the kremlin leader complained about recent articles that raised the possiblity of civil unrest , and accused the media of fueling panic buying of goods by publishing stories about impending shortages . house-senate conferees approved a permanent smoking ban on domestic airline routes within the continental u.s. and on flights of less than six hours to alaska and hawaii . the curbs would cover all but a small percentage of flights , and represent an expansion of the current ban on flights of less than two hours . e. robert wallach was sentenced by a u.s. judge in new york to six years in prison and fined $ 250,000 for his racketeering conviction in the wedtech scandal . wallach , an associate of ex-attorney general meese , was found guilty in august of taking $ 425,000 in illegal payoffs from the now-defunct defense contractor . nasa resumed the countdown for today 's launch of the space shuttle atlantis , and a federal appeals court in washington dismissed a lawsuit by anti-nuclear groups 0 to delay the flight because the plutonium-powered galileo space probe was aboard . the space agency said 0 it did n't expect weather or protesters to block the liftoff . the bush administration is preparing to extend a ban on federal financing of research using fetal tissue , government sources said 0 . a temporary prohibition was imposed in march 1988 . while anti-abortion groups are opposed to such research , scientists have said 0 transplanting such tissue could be effective in treating diabetes . delegates from 91 nations endorsed a ban on world ivory trade in an attempt to rescue the endangered elephant from extinction . five african nations , however , said 0 they would continue selling the valuable tusks . mubarak held reconciliation talks with gadhafi at the egyptian resort of mersa metruh . it was the libyan leader 's first trip to egypt in 16 years . they announced a reduction in formalities for travel , but did n't show any real signs of resuming full diplomatic ties . the egyptian president said 0 he would visit libya today to resume the talks . seoul and pyongyang reached a tentative agreement to allow visits between families on the divided korean peninsula . such family reunions would be the second since 1945 . differences remained between the north and south korean governments , however , over conditions for the exchanges . freed black nationalists resumed political activity in south africa and vowed to fight against apartheid , raising fears of a possible white backlash . the nation 's main white opposition party warned that the government 's release sunday of eight black political prisoners risked bringing chaos and eventual black marxist rule to the nation . the white house said 0 bush is `` fully satisfied '' with cia director webster and the intelligence agency 's performance during the oct. 3 failed coup in panama . the washington post reported that unidentified senior administration officials were frustrated with webster 's low-profile activities during the insurrection and wanted him replaced . poland 's legislature approved limits on automatic wage increases without special provisions for food price rises . the vote was considered a test of the solidarity-led government 's resolve to proceed with a harsh economic-restructuring program . norway 's king olav v installed a three-party non-socialist government as gro harlem brundtland 's three-year-old labor regime relinquished power . the 19-member cabinet is led by prime minister jan syse , who acknowledged a `` difficult situation '' since the coalition controls only 62 seats in oslo 's 165-member legislature . el salvador 's government opened a new round of talks with the country 's leftist rebels in an effort to end a decade-long civil war . a spokesman said 0 the guerrillas would present a cease-fire proposal during the negotiations in costa rica that includes constitutional and economic changes . the state department said 0 there was a `` possibility '' that some nicaraguan rebels were selling their u.s.-supplied arms to salvadoran guerrillas , but insisted 0 it was n't an organized effort . separately , secretary of state baker complained about a u.n. aide who last week told the contras to disband as part of a regional peace accord . died : cornel wilde , 74 , actor and director , in los angeles , of leukemia ... . danilo kis , 54 , yugoslav-born novelist and essayist , sunday , in paris , of cancer .