the dollar weakened in indecisive trading as foreign-exchange dealers awaited fresh economic news that they hope 0 will jolt the u.s. unit out of its narrow ranges . the canadian dollar climbed to its highest level against the u.s. dollar since late august , prompting the bank of canada to sell the canadian currency on the market . traders say that after a week of nervously tracking every development on wall street , the foreign-exchange market has settled back to catch its breath ahead of new u.s. economic data . they noted , however , that a 26-point drop in the dow jones industrial average gave the dollar a sharp nudge downward late in the day . in late new york trading yesterday , the dollar was quoted at 1.8470 marks , down from 1.8578 marks late friday , and at 141.90 yen , down from 142.43 yen late friday . sterling was quoted at $ 1.6030 , up from $ 1.5885 late friday . in tokyo tuesday , the u.s. currency opened for trading at 141.80 yen , down from monday 's tokyo close of 142.40 yen . the market 's attention is especially focused on a preliminary report on the u.s. third-quarter gross national product , due out thursday , which could show 0 the economy is continuing to expand at a relatively brisk pace . the consensus view on real gnp , the total value of the u.s. output of goods and services adjusted for inflation , calls for a 2.3 % gain on an annual basis , slowing somewhat from the second quarter 's 2.5 % , but still fairly strong . few market participants expect the u.s. unit to rally sharply on the news , if it turns out as expected . many contend that the report may overstate the economy 's health and predict 0 the third-quarter figures may be the last vigorous statistics for some time 0 to come . `` everyone is waiting for gnp , '' says walter simon , an assistant treasurer with bank julius baer & co . `` yet even a relatively strong number -- 2.8 % to 2.9 % -- wo n't alter the market 's view that the economy is softening . '' hubert pedroli , managing director of foreign exchange at credit suisse in new york , adds , `` the market sees this as the last piece of good news . '' mr. pedroli notes that the gnp deflator , a measure of inflation , is expected to slow , which would give the federal reserve more room 0 to ease key u.s. rates . analysts predict a 3.5 % rise in the deflator , after climbing 4.6 % in the second quarter . they note that when an unexpectedly sharp widening in the u.s. trade gap in august was reported earlier this month , hopes for a sustained narrowing of the trade deficit were dashed and sentiment gripped the market that the u.s. economy was losing its momentum . a 190-point plunge in u.s. stock shares compounded the view , they say 0 . `` everyone is extremely convinced 0 the economy is slowing , '' says one senior new york dealer . `` if we 're not headed for a recession , we 're certainly headed for a major slowdown . '' while the market expects little reaction from news of u.s. durable goods orders , scheduled for release today , participants note that the figures will probably serve to reinforce this bearish sentiment . u.s. durable goods orders are expected to show a decline of 1.2 % in september , according to economists . the anticipated drop follows a 3.9 % rise in august . traders , however , are quick to point out that while there is little enthusiasm for buying dollars , the u.s. unit has found a `` natural bottom '' at about 1.85 marks and 140 yen . its resilience around these levels is pegged to persistent investor demand for the greenback , especially in japan . on the commodity exchange in new york , gold for current delivery settled at $ 367 an ounce , down 30 cents . estimated volume was a very light one million ounces . in early trading in hong kong tuesday , gold was quoted at $ 366.79 an ounce .