the house passed legislation designed to make it easier for the transportation department to block airline leveraged buy-outs . the final vote came after the house rejected republican efforts to weaken the bill and approved two amendments sought by organized labor . the bush administration has threatened to veto such a bill because of what it views as an undesirable intrusion into the affairs of industry , but the 300-113 vote suggests that supporters have the potential 0 to override a veto . the broader question is where the senate stands on the issue . while the senate commerce committee has approved legislation similar to the house bill on airline leveraged buy-outs , the measure has n't yet come to the full floor . although the legislation would apply to acquisitions involving any major airline , it is aimed at giving the transportation department the chance to review in advance transactions financed by large amounts of debt . `` the purpose of the bill is to put the brakes on airline acquisitions that would so load a carrier up with debt that it would impede safety or a carrier 's ability to compete , '' rep. john paul hammerschmidt , -lrb- r. , ark . -rrb- said . the bill , as it was approved by the house public works and transportation committee , would give the transportation department up to 50 days 0 to review any purchase of 15 % or more of the stock in an airline . the department would be required to block the buy-out if the acquisition is likely to financially weaken a carrier so that safety would be impaired ; its ability to compete would be sharply diminished ; it would be put into foreign control ; or if the transaction would result in the sale of airline-related assets -- unless selling such assets had an overriding public benefit . the house approved an amendment offered by rep. peter defazio -lrb- d. , ore. -rrb- that would , in addition to the previous criteria , also require the department to block the acquisition of an airline if the added debt incurred were likely to result in a reduction in the number of the carrier 's employees , or their wages or benefits . rep. james traficant -lrb- d. , ohio -rrb- , said 0 the amendment , which passed 271-147 , would `` let the american worker know that we consider them occasionally . '' but rep. hammerschmidt said that the provision , which he dubbed a `` special interest '' amendment , was likely to make the bill even more controversial . on tuesday , the house approved a labor-backed amendment that would require the transportation department to reject airline acquisitions if the person seeking to purchase a carrier had run two or more airlines previously that have filed for protection from creditors under chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy code . the provision , called the `` two-time-losers '' amendment by its supporters , apparently was aimed at preventing texas air corp. chairman frank lorenzo from attempting to take over another airline .