the envelope arrives in the mail . open it and two soulful eyes on a boy 's brown face peer out from the page , pleadingly . does the tyke have a good mind about to be wasted ? is he a victim of gramm-rudman cuts ? no , but he 's endangered all the same : his new sitcom on abc needs a following to stay on the air . abc has n't had much luck with shows featuring blacks in recent years , and the producers of one new arrival are a bit desperate . `` homeroom , '' a show about a black ad executive who gives up the boardroom for a fourth-grade classroom , is flunking the ratings test . so producers alyce and topper carew spun their rolodexes and gathered names of black opinion makers to mount a direct-mail campaign . by wooing a core black audience they figure 0 they might keep the show alive at least until the spring semester . using direct mail for a tv show is like fishing for whale with a breaded hook . it just is n't done . but employing this kind of gut-wrenching plea to black consciousness makes it even more unusual . still , mr. carew thinks 0 he can reach a good chunk of the three million-plus black homes 0 he needs by mailing to the almost 10,000 blacks who form what he calls `` the grapevine . '' `` the grapevine is n't organized , but you and i know 0 it exists , '' says mr. carew , referring to the often uncannily small world of black professionals and community leaders . `` this is a very personal , ethnic style , '' mr. carew says . `` i want people in the barber shops and the beauty shops and standing in line at the rib joints to be talking about the show . i want white america to talk about it , too , but i 'm convinced that the grapevine is what 's happening . '' abc says 0 it is aware of the producers ' action , but the mailing was sent without the network 's blessing . the letter , in fact , takes a jab at abc for being a laggard in black programming . meanwhile , as the sunday evening show struggles to stay afloat against the tough competition of `` murder , she wrote , '' the grapevine idea is threatening to turn into a weed : the tactic apparently has inspired sample viewings , but accolades are slow in coming . doug alligood , a black advertising executive who tracks black viewing patterns , gives the carews an `` a '' for marketing moxie , but is n't alone in his lukewarm reaction . some shows just do n't impress , he says 0 , and this is one of them .