troubled saatchi & saatchi co. has attracted offers for some of its advertising units , with potential suitors including interpublic group , but has rejected them , people familiar with the company said 0 . industry executives said 0 interpublic approached saatchi in august about buying its campbell-mithun-esty unit , but was turned down by chairman maurice saatchi . more recently , interpublic inquired about one of saatchi 's smaller communications companies -- identified as the rowland public relations firm by several industry executives -- but again was rebuffed , they said 0 . interpublic 's chairman and chief executive officer , philip geier jr. , made the pitches in visits to mr. saatchi in london , the executives said 0 . a saatchi spokesman declined to comment about interpublic . but the spokesman confirmed that saatchi has received several inquiries from companies interested in acquiring its campbell-mithun and rowland units . he added , `` we have no intention of selling either business . '' interpublic declined comment . the offers come as saatchi is struggling through the most troubled period in its 19-year history . takeover speculation has been rife , its consulting business is on the block , and its largest shareholder , southeastern asset management , has said 0 it 's been approached by third parties regarding a possible restructuring . analysts have continually lowered their earnings estimates for the company , and their outlook , at least for the short term , is bleak . in the midst of the current turmoil , saatchi is attempting to shore up its ad businesses . it named a new chief executive officer , former ims international head robert louis-dreyfus . it rebuffed an offer by carl spielvogel , head of saatchi 's backer spielvogel bates unit , to lead a management buy-out of all or part of saatchi . and last week , people close to saatchi said 0 maurice saatchi and his brother , charles , would lead a buy-out if a hostile bid emerged . but saatchi 's troubles have only whipped up interest among outsiders interested in picking off pieces of its ad businesses . while saatchi 's major agency networks -- backer spielvogel and saatchi & saatchi advertising -- would be difficult for any ad firm to buy because of potential client conflicts , its smaller businesses are quite attractive . campbell-mithun-esty , for example , has had big problems at its new york office , but offers strong offices in other areas of the country , including minneapolis and chicago . that would would make it appealing to a network such as interpublic that already has a healthy new york presence . -lrb- while there would be some client conflicts , they would n't be nearly as onerous as with saatchi 's other agencies . -rrb- campbell-mithun also would be a sizable addition to an agency network : it has billings of about $ 850 million and blue-chip clients including general mills , jeep\/eagle and dow brands . rowland , meanwhile , has expanded aggressively , and now ranks as the fifth-largest u.s. public relations firm , according to o'dwyer's directory of public relations firms . it would be attractive to an agency such as interpublic , one of the few big agency groups without an affiliated public relations firm of its own . other saatchi units include ad agency mccaffrey & mccall , which has the mercedes account and which has been attempting to buy itself back ; and howard marlboro , a sports and event marketing firm . despite saatchi 's firm stand against selling its ad units , u.s. analysts believe 0 the company may ultimately sell some of the smaller units . mr. louis-dreyfus , in a recent interview , said 0 he might sell `` a marginal agency or office . '' analysts believe 0 he may ultimately dispose of some of the non-advertising businesses . prudential 's final four prudential insurance co. of america said 0 it selected four agencies to pitch its $ 60 million to $ 70 million account . in addition to backer spielvogel bates , a saatchi unit that has handled the account since 1970 , the other agencies include lowe marschalk , a unit of the lowe group ; grey advertising ; and wpp group 's scali , mccabe , sloves agency . all agencies are new york-based . a spokesman for the insurance and financial services firm , based in newark , n.j. , said 0 it hopes to make a decision within three to four months . jamaica fires back the jamaica tourist board , in the wake of young & rubicam 's indictment on charges that it bribed jamaican officials to win the account in 1981 , released a scathing memo blaming the agency for the embarrassing incident . the memo attempts to remove the tourist board as far as possible from the agency , which pleaded innocent to the charges . among other things , the memo contends that young & rubicam gave false assurances that the investigation would n't uncover any information that would `` embarrass the government of jamaica or the jamaica tourist board . '' it also contends that young & rubicam never told the tourist board about its relationship with ad ventures , a jamaican firm hired by the agency . the u.s. indictment charges 0 ad ventures was a front used to funnel kickbacks to the then-minister of tourism . the memo also chastises the agency for the timing of its announcement thursday that it would no longer handle the $ 5 million to $ 6 million account . the agency declined comment , but said 0 it will continue work until a new agency is chosen . ad notes ... . new account : american suzuki motor corp. , brea , calif. , awarded its estimated $ 10 million to $ 30 million account to asher\/gould , los angeles . also participating in the finals was los angeles agency hakuhodo advertising america . american suzuki 's previous agency , keye\/donna\/pearlstein , did n't participate . ayer talks : n w ayer 's president and chief executive officer , jerry j. siano , said 0 the agency is holding `` conversations '' about acquiring zwiren collins karo & trusk , a midsized chicago agency , but a deal is n't yet close to being completed . who 's news : john wells , 47 , former president and chief executive of n w ayer 's chicago office , was named management director and director of account services at wpp group 's j. walter thompson agency in chicago ... . shelly lazarus , 42 , was named president and chief operating officer of ogilvy & mather direct , the direct mail division of wpp group 's ogilvy & mather agency .