housing construction sank in september to its lowest level since the last recession , the commerce department reported 0 . work began on homes and apartments at an annual rate of 1,263,000 units last month , down 5.2 % from august , the department said 0 . the september decline followed an even steeper drop of 6.2 % in august and left housing starts at their weakest since october 1982 , when the country was nearing the end of a recession . originally the department had reported the august decline as 5 % . the numbers suggest that the housing industry is still suffering the effects of the federal reserve 's battle against inflation . the industry had shown signs of recovery this summer , after the central bank began to relax its clamp on credit , allowing interest rates to drop a bit after pushing them up for a year . sales of new homes rose and inventories of houses , which had been climbing , dropped . but last month new construction in all types of homes waned , from single-family houses to large apartment complexes . `` it 's pretty much weak across the board , '' said martin regalia , chief economist of the national council of savings institutions . mr. regalia said 0 the industry may be reluctant to step up building at the moment for fear 0 the inventories of unsold homes will increase again . another reason for the weakness , he said 0 , may be that mortgage rates have hit a plateau since they began edging down after a peak in march . in august , rates on 30-year fixed-rate mortgages started creeping up a bit , but they inched down again through september . `` rates have n't really peeled off that much , '' mr. regalia said . `` we 've kind of settled now into an interest-rate environment that 's fairly high . '' work was begun on single family homes -- the core of the housing market -- at an annual rate of 971,000 in september , a drop of 2.1 % from the previous month . that followed a 3.3 % decline in august . construction of apartments and other multi-family dwellings slipped 2.2 % to an annual rate of 1,022,000 following a 3.5 % decline in august . the number of building permits issued for future construction dropped 2.4 % to a 1,296,000 annual rate after rising 3.7 % in august . all the numbers were adjusted for normal seasonal variations in building activity . the housing starts numbers , however , are one of the least precise of the government 's economic indicators and are often revised significantly as more information is collected .