the stock market 's dizzying gyrations during the past few days have made a lot of individual investors wish 0 they could buy some sort of insurance . after all , they wo n't soon forget the stock bargains that became available after the october 1987 crash . but while they want to be on the alert for similar buying opportunities now , they 're afraid of being hammered by another terrifying plunge . the solution , at least for some investors , may be a hedging technique that 's well known to players in the stock-options market . called a `` married put , '' the technique is carried out by purchasing a stock and simultaneously buying a put option on that stock . it 's like `` fire insurance , '' says 0 harrison roth , the senior options strategist at cowen & co . because a put option gives its owner the right , but not the obligation , to sell a fixed number of shares of the stock at a stated price on or before the option 's expiration date , the investor is protected against a sudden drop in the stock 's price . but most investment advisers do n't recommend using married puts all the time . that 's because the cost of buying put options eats into an investor 's profit when stock prices rise . `` this is the type of fire insurance 0 you only buy when the nearby woods are on fire , '' says mr. roth . `` you always want your house insured , but you do n't always feel the need for your investments to be insured . '' in addition to hedging new stock purchases , the married-put technique can be used to protect stocks that an investor already owns . in either case , the investor faces three possible outcomes : -- if the stock goes up in price between now and the put 's expiration date , the put will probably expire worthless . the investor will be out the cost of the put , which is called the `` premium , '' and this loss will reduce the stock-market profit . -- if the stock stays at the same price between now and the put 's expiration date , the investor 's loss will be limited to the cost of the put , less any amount realized from a closing sale of the put . the worst-case scenario would be if the put expires worthless . -- if the price of the stock declines , the put will increase in value . once the stock price is less than the exercise price , or `` strike price , '' of the put , the gain will match the loss on the stock dollar for dollar . the put establishes a minimum selling price for the stock during its life . when a stock falls below the put 's strike price , the investor simply sells the stock at a loss and simultaneously sells the put at a profit . or , the investor can exercise the put , by tendering the stock to his or her broker in return for payment from another investor who has sold a put on the same stock . brokers handle such transactions through the options clearing corp. , which guarantees all option trades . the accompanying table shows how this strategy would work for three stocks . though not reflected in the table , an investor should know that the cost of the option insurance can be partially offset by any dividends that the stock pays . for example , tenneco inc. pays a quarterly dividend of 76 cents , which would be received before the february option expires and , thus , reduce the cost of using the technique by that amount . in this case , the investor 's risk would n't exceed 3.6 % of the total investment . to simplify the calculations , commissions on the option and underlying stock are n't included in the table . there are more than 650 stocks on which options may be bought and sold , including some over-the-counter stocks . but some investors might prefer a simpler strategy then hedging their individual holdings . they can do this by purchasing `` index puts , '' which are simply put options on indexes that match broad baskets of stocks . for instance , the most popular index option is the s&p 100 option , commonly called the oex . it is based on the stocks that make up standard & poor 's 100-stock index . unlike options on individual issues , index options are settled only in cash , and no stock is ever tendered . but while index options are convenient , they have several disadvantages . for one thing , an investor 's portfolio might not closely match the s&p 100 . as a result , the oex insurance may or may not fully protect an investor 's holdings in the event of a market decline . in addition , oex options were suspended from trading last friday afternoon , after the stock-market sell-off got under way and trading in the s&p-500 futures contract was halted . so an investor who wanted to realize a profit on oex puts after the trading suspension would have been out of luck . on the other hand , only a handful of individual issues were suspended from trading on friday . normally , once the underlying investment is suspended from trading , the options on those investments also do n't trade . ultimately , whether the insurance provided by purchasing puts is worthwhile depends on the cost of the options . that cost rises in times of high market volatility . but it still might be cheaper than taking a major hit . the protection from using married puts is clearly superior to that afforded by another options strategy 0 some investors consider using during troubled times : selling call options on stocks 0 the investor owns . a call option is similar to a put , except that it gives its owner the right to buy shares at a stated price until expiration . selling a call option gives an investor a small buffer against a stock-market decline . that 's because it reduces the cost of the stock by the amount of premium received from the sale of the call . but if the price of the stock rises above the strike price of the option , the stock is almost certain to be called away . and in that case , the investor misses out on any major upside gain . these calculations exclude the effect of commissions paid and dividends received from the stock . all prices are as of monday 's close .