donald trump , who faced rising doubt about his bid for american airlines parent amr corp. even before a united airlines buy-out came apart friday , withdrew his $ 7.54 billion offer . separately , bankers representing the group trying to buy united 's parent ual corp. met with other banks about reviving that purchase at a lower price , possibly around $ 250 a share , or $ 5.65 billion . but a lower bid could face rejection by the ual board . mr. trump , who vowed wednesday to `` go forward '' with the bid , said 0 he was dropping it `` in light of the recent change in market conditions . '' he said 0 he might now sell his amr stake , buy more shares , or make another offer at a lower price . the manhattan real-estate developer acted after the ual buyers failed to obtain financing for their earlier $ 300-a-share bid , which sparked a selling panic among that snowballed into a 190-point drop friday in the dow jones industrial average . news about ual and amr , whose shares never reopened after trading was halted friday for the ual announcement , sent both stocks nosediving in composite trading on the new york stock exchange . ual tumbled $ 56.875 to $ 222.875 on volume of 2.3 million shares , and amr declined by $ 22.125 to $ 76.50 as 4.7 million shares changed hands . together , the two stocks wreaked havoc among takeover stock traders , and caused a 7.3 % drop in the dow jones transportation average , second in size only to the stock-market crash of oct. 19 , 1987 . some said 0 friday 's market debacle had given mr. trump an excuse to bail out of an offer that showed signs of stalling even before problems emerged with the ual deal . after reaching an intraday high of $ 107.50 the day 0 mr. trump disclosed his bid oct. 5 , amr 's stock had retreated as low as $ 97.75 last week . some takeover stock traders had been betting against mr. trump because he has a record of disclosing stakes in companies that are potential takeover targets , then selling at a profit without making a bid . `` he still has n't proven his mettle as a big-league take-out artist , '' said airline analyst kevin murphy of morgan stanley & co . `` he 's done this thing where he 'll buy a little bit of a company and then trade out of it . he 's written this book , ` the art of the deal . ' why does n't he just follow through on one of these things ? '' mr. trump withdrew his bid before the amr board , which is due to meet tomorrow , ever formally considered it . amr had weighed a wide range of possible responses , from flat rejection to recapitalizations and leveraged buy-outs that might have included either employees , a friendlier buyer such as texas billionaire robert bass , or both . amr had also sought to foil mr. trump in congress by lobbying for legislation that would have bolstered the authority of the transportation department to reject airline buy-outs . yesterday , mr. trump tried to put the blame for the collapse of the ual deal on congress , saying 0 it was rushing through a bill to protect amr executives . `` i believe that the perception that legislation in this area may be hastily approved contributed to the collapse of the ual transaction , and the resulting disruption in the financial markets experienced this past friday , '' mr. trump wrote members of congress . amr declined to comment , and mr. trump did n't respond to requests for interviews . mr. trump never said how much amr stock he had bought , only that his holdings were `` substantial . '' however , he only received federal clearance to buy more than $ 15 million of the stock on sept. 20 , when the price rose $ 2 a share to $ 78.50 . between then and his bid on oct. 5 , the price fluctuated between $ 75.625 and $ 87.375 . in an attempt to persuade investors that his bid was n't just `` a stock play , '' mr. trump promised last week to notify the market before selling any shares . amr was trading at around $ 84 yesterday before his withdrawal announcement , then immediately fell to about $ 76 . assuming that he paid a rough average price of $ 80 a share , and assuming 0 he did n't sell before his announcement reached the market , mr. trump could be sitting with a modest loss with the stock at $ 76.50 . some analysts said 0 amr chairman robert crandall might seize the opportunity presented by the stock price drop to protect the nation 's largest airline with a defensive transaction , such as the sale of stock to a friendly holder or company employees . however , other knowledgeable observers said 0 they believed 0 mr. crandall and the amr board might well decide to tough it out without taking any extra steps . some analysts said 0 they believed 0 mr. trump , whose towering ego had been viewed by some as a reason to believe 0 he would n't back out , might come back with a lower bid . ray neidl of dillon read & co. said 0 mr. trump `` is stepping back and waiting for the dust to settle . i 'm sure 0 he still wants amr . '' but others remained skeptical . `` i was never sure 0 donald trump really wanted to take amr , '' said john mattis , a bond analyst with shearson lehman hutton inc . `` what happened with united was a gracious way for him to bow out . '' mr. trump never obtained financing for his bid . that skepticism would leave him with an even greater credibility problem should he return that would handicap him in any effort to oust the board in a proxy fight . meanwhile , citicorp and chase manhattan corp. , the two lead lenders on the ual buy-out , met with other banks yesterday to determine if they would be willing to finance the buy-out at a lower price . officials familiar with the talks said 0 citicorp had discussed lowering the offer to $ 250 a share , but said 0 that price was a talking point and that no decision has been made . at $ 250 a share , the group would have to borrow about $ 6.1 billion from banks . the first ual deal unraveled after citibank and chase could n't raise $ 7.2 billion . citibank and chase had agreed to commit $ 3 billion , and said 0 they were `` highly confident '' of raising another $ 4.2 billion . together , citicorp and chase received $ 8 million in fees to raise the rest of the financing . but other banks balked at the low interest rate and banking fees 0 the ual group was willing to pay them . officials familiar with the bank talks said 0 the ual buy-out group -- ual pilots , management , and british airways plc -- is now willing to pay higher bank fees and interest , but is n't likely to boost its $ 965 million equity contribution . nor is the group likely to come forward with a revised offer within the next 48 hours despite the hopes of many traders . the group 's advisers want to make certain 0 they have firm bank commitments the second time around . even if the buy-out group is able to obtain financing , the transaction still faces obstacles . ual 's board could reject the new price as too low , especially since there are n't any competing bids . los angeles investor marvin davis , whose $ 275-a-share offer was rejected by ual 's board , has n't shown signs of pursuing a $ 300-a-share back-up bid 0 he made last month . in addition , the coalition of labor and management , longtime enemies who joined forces only under the threat of mr. davis 's bid , could break apart now . the group 's resilience gets its first test today when 30 top pilot union leaders convene outside chicago in a previously scheduled meeting . union chairman f.c . -lrb- rick -rrb- dubinsky faces the tough task of explaining why banks refused to finance a buy-out 0 the members approved overwhelmingly last week . the pilot union is vowing to pursue an acquisition whatever the board decides . but if the board rejects a reduced bid and decides to explore other alternatives , it could transform what has been a harmonious process into an adversarial one . the pilots could play hardball by noting 0 they are crucial to any sale or restructuring because they can refuse to fly the airplanes . if they were to insist on a low bid of , say $ 200 a share , the board might n't be able to obtain a higher offer from other bidders because banks might hesitate to finance a transaction 0 the pilots oppose . also , because ual chairman stephen wolf and other ual executives have joined the pilots ' bid , the board might be forced to exclude him from its deliberations in order to be fair to other bidders . that could cost him the chance to influence the outcome and perhaps join the winning bidder .