the labor department cited usx corp. for numerous health and safety violations at two pennsylvania plants , and proposed $ 7.3 million in fines , the largest penalty ever proposed for alleged workplace violations by an employer . the department 's occupational safety and health administration proposed fines of $ 6.1 million for alleged violations at the company 's fairless hills , pa. , steel mill ; that was a record for proposed penalties at any single facility . osha cited nearly 1,500 alleged violations of federal electrical , crane-safety , record-keeping and other requirements . a second citation covering the company 's clairton , pa. , coke works involved more than 200 alleged violations of electrical-safety and other requirements , for which osha proposed $ 1.2 million in fines . labor secretary elizabeth dole said , `` the magnitude of these penalties and citations is matched only by the magnitude of the hazards to workers which resulted from corporate indifference to worker safety and health , and severe cutbacks in the maintenance and repair programs needed to remove those hazards . '' osha said 0 there have been three worker fatalities at the two plants in the past two years and 17 deaths since 1972 . gerard scannell , the head of osha , said 0 usx managers have known about many of the safety and health deficiencies at the plants for years , `` yet have failed to take necessary action to counteract the hazards . '' `` particularly flagrant , '' mrs. dole said 0 , `` are the company 's numerous failures to properly record injuries at its fairless works , in spite of the firm promise 0 it had made in an earlier corporate-wide settlement agreement to correct such discrepancies . '' that settlement was in april 1987 . a usx spokesman said 0 the company had n't yet received any documents from osha regarding the penalty or fine . `` once we do , they will receive very serious evaluation , '' the spokesman said . `` no consideration is more important than the health and safety of our employees . '' usx said 0 it has been cooperating with osha since the agency began investigating the clairton and fairless works . he said that , if and when safety problems were identified , they were corrected . the usx citations represented the first sizable enforcement action taken by osha under mr. scannell . he has promised stiffer fines , though the size of penalties sought by osha have been rising in recent years even before he took office this year . `` the big problem is that usx management has proved unwilling to devote the necessary resources and manpower to removing hazards and to safeguarding safety and health in the plants , '' said linda anku , osha regional administrator in philadelphia . usx has 15 working days 0 to contest the citations and proposed penalties , before the independent occupational safety and health review commission . before the usx case , osha 's largest proposed fine for one employer was $ 4.3 million for alleged safety violations at john morrell & co. , a meatpacking subsidiary of united brands co. , cincinnati . the company is contesting the fine .