several of the new york stock exchange 's own listed companies , led by giant contel corp. , are joining for the first time to complain about program trading and the exchange 's role in it . claiming 0 program trading has turned the big board into a `` gambling casino , '' contel chairman charles wohlstetter said that he and at least 20 other corporate executives are forming an unprecedented alliance . the group , mr. wohlstetter said 0 in an interview , wants to end the market 's wild price swings that critics blame on computer-aided program-trading strategies . the group will complain to washington , to the heads of program-trading firms and to the heads of the big board itself , he said 0 . `` they should call -lcb- the exchange -rcb- trump east , '' charged mr. wohlstetter , the 79-year-old founder of contel who 's also a former investment banker and stock trader . `` what is the mission of the financial community -- to help some scavengers or schemers , or help corporate america ? '' contel is a $ 6 billion telephone and electronics company . pressure has been building on the big board in the past two weeks to do something about market volatility , which many investors say 0 is caused by program trading . the market 's friday-the-13th plunge of 190 points in the dow jones industrial average , and the big board 's understated response to it , galvanized some longstanding dissatisfaction among companies listed on the exchange . last month , program trading accounted for a record 13.8 % of average daily big board volume . mr. wohlstetter , for example , said 0 he wrote to big board chairman john j. phelan jr. about program trading after the 190-point dow plunge , and as in previous queries , `` what i get back is gobbledygook . '' he said 0 he 's upset that mr. phelan , trying to calm investors after the plunge , said that investors would simply have to get used to the market 's big price swings . the big board `` is partly to blame -lcb- for the price swings -rcb- , because they 're cowards , '' said mr. wohlstetter . `` their powerful members manage them . '' the focus of the outcry has been stock-index arbitrage , which accounts for about half the program trading that goes on . index arbitragers argue that their trading is healthy because it links markets , but critics say 0 such trading accelerates market movements and increases the chance for a crash . the big board has refused to be drawn into a public debate about program trading . richard grasso , big board president , last week said only that the exchange is concerned about all its constituents . privately , exchange officials worry that without a hospitable system for program trading at the big board , billions of dollars in trading will simply migrate to overseas exchanges such as london 's . it is partly for this reason that the exchange last week began trading in its own stock `` basket '' product that allows big investors to buy or sell all 500 stocks in the standard & poor 's index in a single trade . one intended customer of the new basket product is index arbitragers , according to the exchange . investors have complained for some time about program trading , particularly index arbitrage , to little avail . but according to some big board traders , an organized campaign from exchange-listed companies might make the exchange finally consider big changes . `` they wo n't fight the listed companies . now the assault is on , '' said one top trader . the big board ca n't ban stock-index futures , of course , but it could ban use of its high-speed electronic trading system for program trading or at least encourage securities firms to back off . the exchange put a bit of a damper on program trading when , last year , it simply started to publish monthly statistics of each firm 's program-trading volume . contel 's mr. wohlstetter said 0 the group of big board companies is n't ready to go public yet with its effort , and that he does n't plan to be the leader once it is public . however , he said 0 he planned to spend the weekend making calls to gather additional support . among those 0 mr. wohlstetter said 0 he has been talking to are sanford weill of primerica corp. , which is the parent of smith barney , harris upham & co. ; gte corp. 's james johnson , and itt corp. 's rand araskog . none of these chief executives were available for comment . among the targets of the big board companies ' campaign will be some corporate pension funds that use program-trading strategies to maximize returns on their investments . for contel 's part , the company a month ago informed each of its money managers that it would drop them if they give business to program-trading firms . it was just those kinds of ultimatums that last week succeeded in turning up the heat in the debate . kemper corp. 's kemper financial services unit said 0 it cut off bear stearns , morgan stanley , oppenheimer and general electric co. 's kidder , peabody & co. unit . all of the firms except kidder , which is the second-biggest program trader on wall street , quickly announced pull-backs from index arbitrage . kidder officials stand by their aggressive use of program trading . chief executive officer michael carpenter said that despite the outcry even by some of kidder 's own brokers , he believes 0 index arbitrage does n't have a `` negative impact on the market as a whole . '' however , pressure on kidder 's parent , ge , could change kidder 's policy . ge chairman john welch has been `` besieged with phone calls '' complaining about his unit 's program trading , according to a person close to him .