it is a peaceful time in this part of western india . the summer crop is harvested , winter sowing has yet to begin . farmers in loose turbans and fancy earrings spend their afternoons laughing and gossiping at the markets . one could imagine such a lull in the lives of the arabs before the quadrupling of oil prices . for just as the arabs were in the 1960s , the farmers of sidhpur are on the brink of global power and fame . the arabs had merely oil . these farmers may have a grip on the world 's very heart . or , at least , its heart disease . that is because sidhpur has a near-monopoly on the world 's supply of flea seed , also known as flea wort or , in western parlance , psyllium : a tiny , tasteless , obscure seed that , according to early research , may reduce cholesterol levels in the blood . ever since the link to cholesterol was disclosed , americans have begun scarfing up psyllium in their breakfast cereals . if further research proves the seed 's benefits , this dusty farm district could become the epicenter of a health-food fad 0 to rival all fads since cod-liver oil . `` this seed 's not grown anywhere else in india , or anywhere else in the world , '' says t.v. krishnamurthy , a vice president of procter & gamble india ltd. , a major psyllium buyer and promoter . `` the proper climatic conditions do n't exist in many places in the world . '' arvind patel , a processor and exporter of the seed , raves : `` if psyllium takes the place of oat bran , it will be huge . '' whether psyllium makes sidhpur 's fortune depends on cholesterol-fearing americans , the u.s. food and drug administration and , of course , the outcome of further research . only one thing is certain here : pysllium is likely to remain solely an export item from sidhpur for a long time . local farmers say 0 it is as good a cash crop as mustard or fenugreek , a legume . but they have no desire to eat a bowl of psyllium each morning , and , perhaps , little need : lean , frugal vegetarians , the farmers are innocents in the clogged , treacherous world of cholesterol . psyllium is an annual herb , plantago ovata , that has been used for centuries by folk doctors here , mainly as a laxative and anti-diarrheal . as such , the soluble fiber has an almost fanatic following in northern india . `` i can assure you , '' attests a 25-year-old lawyer in new delhi , with a meaningfully raised eyebrow , `` from personal experience , 0 it works . '' a prominent businessman in bombay gives a similar testimonial : `` i have been taking it daily since 1961 . '' folk doctors also prescribe it for kidney , bladder and urethra problems , duodenal ulcers and hemorrhoids . some apply it to gouty joints . the plant has a hairy stem that produces flowers and diminutive seeds . it is the seed 's colorlessness and size -- 1,000 of them weigh only 1.5 grams , or about as much as two paper clips -- that explain the historical allusions to fleas . the transluscent husk of the seed is removed , sifted and crushed ; the seed itself is fed to animals . some 90 % of the crop , which was worth $ 26 million last year , is exported . for decades , psyllium husk has been the main ingredient in such laxatives as procter & gamble co. 's metamucil , the top-selling brand in the u.s. , and ciba-geigy corp. 's fiberall . but some time ago , researchers discovered that soluble fibers also lower cholesterol levels in the blood . cincinnati-based p&g took an interest ; it ordered two studies on psyllium and cholesterol . one of the studies , done at the university of minnesota , tested 75 people with raised cholesterol levels . after 16 weeks , the group that took three daily teaspoons of metamucil saw a significant dip in their general cholesterol levels , and an even larger reduction in levels of low-density lipoproteins , the so-called bad cholesterol . in late 1987 , p&g asked the fda for approval to market metamucil as the first non-prescription , cholesterol-lowering product in the in april , the psyllium bandwagon got more crowded . general mills inc. , the food giant , launched a breakfast cereal called benefit , containing psyllium , oat , wheat and beet bran ; the words , `` reduce cholesterol '' were prominently displayed on its package . in september , kellogg co. launched a competing psyllium-fortified cereal called heartwise . suddenly , on television , in advertisements and on their cereal boxes , americans were inundated with news about the obscure seed . the flood of claims and counter-claims worried consumers and actually hurt sales of the new cereals . this month , the food and drug administration expressed concern that americans might someday , in various forms , ingest too much psyllium . currently , there is a lull in the psyllium war . the fda has asked kellogg and general mills to show research that their cereals are safe . it also ordered p&g to produce more studies 0 to buttress its claims that metamucil can lower cholesterol . but the agency has n't yanked psyllium off store shelves . if the fda approves the new uses of psyllium , other companies are expected to rush to market with psyllium products . `` it 's going to be a sensational thing , '' says mr. krishnamurthy of p&g in bombay . says psyllium exporter mr. patel : `` i just got back yesterday from the u.s. . in the newspapers , on the radio and tv , psyllium is everywhere . '' but the news of the boom has yet to trickle down to the farmers . they only know of one use for the crop , as a laxative , and with psyllium prices currently languishing in the wake of a bumper crop , they think of the seed as a marginal crop , something 0 to grow between summer wheat crops . `` psyllium 's not a good crop , '' complains sooraji jath , a 26-year-old farmer from the village of lakshmipura . `` you get a rain at the wrong time and the crop is ruined . '' even at the basic chemicals , pharmaceuticals and cosmetics export promotion council , the government agency that promotes the seed , the psyllium boom is distant thunder . the staff brags about psyllium 's hefty contribution to american regularity , without quite grasping the implications of the research on cholesterol . the council 's annual report has psyllium on its last page , lumped with such unglamorous export items as sarsaparilla and `` nux vomica , '' a plant that induces vomiting . in one way , the psyllium middlemen -- the buyers and exporters -- are glad to keep news of the boom to themselves . they want psyllium prices low for their purchases next year . but there 's a catch . sidhpur and adjacent districts are the only places in the world where psyllium is grown in large quantities . this is partly due to the particular demands of the crop . psyllium needs sandy soil , dew during the first few weeks , and then total dryness when its seeds are maturing . small crops are grown in pakistan , france , spain , italy , belgium and brazil , but their quality ca n't compare to that of indian psyllium . big buyers like procter & gamble say 0 there are other spots on the globe , and in india , where the seed could be grown . `` it 's not a crop that ca n't be doubled or tripled , '' says mr. krishnamurthy . but no one has made a serious effort to transplant the crop . in sidhpur , it is almost time 0 to sow this year 's crop . many farmers , too removed to glean psyllium 's new sparkle in the west , have decided to plant mustard , fennel , cumin , fenugreek or castor-oil seeds . mr. jath is thinking of passing up psyllium altogether this year in favor of a crop with a future such as cumin or fennel . `` maybe i 'll plant castor-oil seeds . '' his brother , parkhaji , whose head is swathed in a gorgeous crimson turban , nods vigorous assent . so when next year 's psyllium crop is harvested in march , it may be smaller than the 16,000 metric tons of the past few years -- right at the crest of the psyllium boom . and the world could experience its first psyllium shortage .