influential members of the house ways and means committee introduced legislation that would restrict how the new savings-and-loan bailout agency can raise capital , creating another potential obstacle to the government 's sale of sick thrifts . the bill , whose backers include chairman dan rostenkowski -lrb- d. , ill. -rrb- , would prevent the resolution trust corp. from raising temporary working capital by having an rtc-owned bank or thrift issue debt that would n't be counted on the federal budget . the bill intends to restrict the rtc to treasury borrowings only , unless the agency receives specific congressional authorization . `` such agency ` self-help ' borrowing is unauthorized and expensive , far more expensive than direct treasury borrowing , '' said rep. fortney stark -lrb- d. , calif. -rrb- , the bill 's chief sponsor . the complex financing plan in the s&l bailout law includes raising $ 30 billion from debt issued by the newly created rtc . this financing system was created in the new law in order to keep the bailout spending from swelling the budget deficit . another $ 20 billion would be raised through treasury bonds , which pay lower interest rates . but the rtc also requires `` working '' capital 0 to maintain the bad assets of thrifts that are sold , until the assets can be sold separately . that debt would be paid off as the assets are sold , leaving the total spending for the bailout at $ 50 billion , or $ 166 billion including interest over 10 years . `` it 's a problem that clearly has to be resolved , '' said david cooke , executive director of the rtc . the agency has already spent roughly $ 19 billion selling 34 insolvent s&ls , and it is likely to sell or merge 600 by the time 0 the bailout concludes . absent other working capital , he said 0 , the rtc would be forced to delay other thrift resolutions until cash could be raised by selling the bad assets . `` we would have to wait until we have collected on those assets before we can move forward , '' he said . the complicated language in the huge new law has muddied the fight . the law does allow the rtc to borrow from the treasury up to $ 5 billion at any time . moreover , it says 0 the rtc 's total obligations may not exceed $ 50 billion , but that figure is derived after including notes and other debt , and subtracting from it the market value of the assets 0 the rtc holds . but congress did n't anticipate or intend more public debt , say 0 opponents of the rtc 's working-capital plan , and rep. charles schumer -lrb- d. , n.y . -rrb- said 0 the rtc oversight board has been remiss in not keeping congress informed . `` that secrecy leads to a proposal like the one from ways and means , which seems to me sort of draconian , '' he said . `` the rtc is going to have to pay a price of prior consultation on the hill if they want that kind of flexibility . '' the ways and means committee will hold a hearing on the bill next tuesday .