ltv steel co. is boosting the prices of flat rolled steel products by an average of 3 % following a recent erosion in the prices of such crucial steel products . the big questions are whether the increase , effective jan. 1 , 1990 , will stick , and whether other major steelmakers will follow suit . it is widely expected that they will . the increase is on the base price , which is already being discounted by virtually all steel producers . but ltv 's move marks the first effort by a major steelmaker to counter the free fall in spot prices . major steel producers are selling cold rolled sheet steel at about $ 370 a ton , compared with a peak price of $ 520 a ton in 1988 . second-tier companies are receiving even less per ton . ltv 's planned increase , which was announced in an oct. 26 memo to district managers , does n't affect electrogalvanized steel or tin plate . ltv confirmed the price-increase plan , saying 0 the move is designed to more accurately reflect the value of products and to put steel on more equal footing with other commodities . a spokesman for ltv steel , which is a unit of dallas-based ltv corp. , noted that steel prices , adjusted for inflation , increased only 1.7 % between 1981 and the fourth quarter of 1988 , while the prices of other industrial commodities increased nearly five times as much . at the same time , steelmakers are trying to invest more to modernize technology and make themselves more competitive . but analysts say 0 the company is also trying to prevent further price drops . moreover , they note that ltv may be trying to send a signal to major customers , such as chrysler corp. and whirlpool corp. , that steelmakers need more money . both companies are in the process of negotiating contracts with ltv and others . `` they -lcb- ltv -rcb- may believe 0 this can impact contract negotiations and is their signal to the world that now is the time 0 to get tough on prices , '' said peter marcus , an analyst with painewebber inc . mr. marcus believes 0 spot steel prices will continue to fall through early 1990 and then reverse themselves . he is n't convinced , though , that the price decline reflects falling demand because the world economy remains relatively strong . and while customers such as steel service centers are continuing to reduce inventories through the fourth quarter , they eventually will begin stocking up again , he notes 0 . it wo n't be clear for months whether the price increase will stick . steelmakers announced a round of base-price increases last year , but began offering sizable discounts over the summer . in fact , ltv was the first steelmaker 0 to publicly boost discounts for buyers of cold rolled sheet steel and hot-dipped galvanized sheet steel . in composite new york stock exchange trading yesterday , ltv common shares fell 12.5 cents to close at $ 1.50 .