`` please submit your offers , '' says felipe bince jr . he surveys the prospective investors gathered in the board room of the philippine government 's asset privatization trust for the sale of a 36 % interest in the country 's largest paper mill . the agency expects the bids to be equivalent of more than $ 80 million . not a peso is offered . mr. bince , the trust 's associate executive trustee , declares the bidding a failure . `` it 's getting harder to sell , '' he mutters as he leaves the room . indeed . recently , the trust failed to auction off the paper mill , a bank , an office building and a small cotton-ginning plant . of the four , only the bank and the plant drew bids -- one apiece . in october 1987 , president corazon aquino vowed that her government would `` get out of business '' by selling all or part of the state 's holdings in the many companies taken over by the government during the 20-year rule of ferdinand marcos . two years later , mrs. aquino 's promise remains largely unfulfilled . october is a critical month for the privatization program . manila is offering several major assets for the first time and is trying to conclude sales already arranged . in addition , the government is scheduled to unveil plans for privatizing philippine airlines , the national carrier , an effort that lawyer and business columnist rodolfo romero calls `` the bellwether of privatization . '' all told , there are assets on the line valued at up to $ 1.03 billion . the privatization program is designed to rid the government of hundreds of assets and to raise critically needed funds . much of the money from the sales is earmarked for a multibillion-dollar agrarian-reform program . but efforts have been thwarted by official indifference , bureaucratic resistance , a legal system that operates at a snail 's pace , political opposition and government misjudgments . most recently , a lack of buyers has been added to the list . rather than gathering momentum , the program is in danger of slowing even more as the government tackles several big assets . the axiom appears to be that the more valuable the asset , the harder the privatization process . `` you just do n't see a whole lot happening , '' says an international economist . to be sure , the program has n't completely stalled . the asset privatization trust , the agency chiefly responsible for selling government-held properties , has recorded sales of more than $ 500 million since it began functioning in december 1986 . but its success has been largely in the sale of small , nonperforming companies , which are valued for their assets . dealing with the sales this month could be particularly challenging because almost every problem that has hobbled the program in the past is popping up again . ramon garcia , the asset trust 's executive trustee , admits to what he calls `` temporary setbacks . '' in light of the poor results recently , he says 0 , the agency is adopting an `` attitude of flexibility . '' october 's troubles began when the trust failed to sell a state-owned commercial bank , associated bank , for the minimum price of 671 million pesos -lrb- $ 31 million -rrb- . at the end of the month , the agency again will offer the bank . but instead of a minimum price , only a target price will be established . bankers say , however , that the government may have difficulty selling the institution even without a floor price . the bank has a negative net worth , they say 0 . in addition , special bidding rules give the bank 's former owner , leonardo ty , the right to match the highest bid . mr. ty lost control to the government in 1980 when a government bank made emergency loans to the cash-strapped institution . in 1983 , the loans were converted into equity , giving manila 98 % of the bank , but with the understanding that mr. ty had repurchase rights . his ability to match any bid has scared off many potential buyers . separately , the government will try again within a month to sell the 36 % stake in paper industries corp. of the philippines , or picop , as the paper mill is known . the price will depend on how much picop shares fetch on the local stock market . but according to bankers and stock analysts who have studied the paper mill , price is n't the only consideration . as it stands now , the government would continue to hold 45 % of picop after the 36 % stake is sold . -lrb- about 7.5 % of picop is publicly traded and other shareholders own the rest of the equity . -rrb- potential buyers , mostly foreign companies , are reluctant to take a non-controlling stake in a company that , by the government 's own reckoning , needs some $ 100 million in new capital for rehabilitation . the prospect of buying into a cash-hungry company without getting management control persuaded at least three foreign buyers , including a member of the elders group of australia , to pull out of the bidding , the bankers and analysts say 0 . mr. garcia acknowledges the problem and says 0 the asset trust will study why the bidding failed and what changes the agency may be able to offer . under government regulations , however , foreign ownership of picop 's equity is limited to 40 % . even though the government would retain the 45 % stake in picop , critics have accused the trust of selling out to foreigners . a series of newspaper articles accused the trust of short-changing the government over the picop sale . mr. garcia says 0 he has been notified of congressional hearings on the picop bidding and possible legislation covering the paper mill 's sale , both prompted by the criticism of the agency . the question of control could further hinder long-delayed plans for the government to divest itself of philippine airlines , in which it has a 99 % stake . the carrier has valuable trans-pacific and asian routes but it remains debt-laden and poorly managed .