where do americans put their money ? it depends on when you look . in 1900 , for instance , less than 8 % of assets went into bank deposits . that rose to nearly 18 % during the depression , and has n't changed much since . pension reserves , on the other hand , made up a relatively small part of household assets until the last decade , when they skyrocketed . and there has been a drastic decline in the importance of unincorporated business assets -- thanks to industry consolidation and a decline in family farms . that 's some of what emerges from the following charts , which show how americans have changed their investment patterns over the past 90 years . some results are self-explanatory . but other figures are surprising . housing , for instance , has remained a fairly steady component of household assets over the past decade -- although common wisdom would have expected an increase . `` there is a lot of attention paid to housing as a form of household wealth , '' says edward n. wolff , professor of economics at new york university . `` but it has n't increased much relative to other assets . it suggests that households accumulate wealth across a broad spectrum of assets . and housing though it appears in the popular mind as being the major -lcb- growing -rcb- household asset , is n't . '' in addition , investors ' desire to hold stocks -- directly and through mutual funds -- has held surprisingly steady ; stocks ' importance among assets largely reflects the ups and downs of the stock market , and not a shift in stock-holding preferences . `` stocks have not spread to the general public , despite the fact that the environment is much different , '' concludes robert avery , an economist at cornell university . `` to me it says that despite all the views that we spend too much of our wealth on paper assets , we have ways of holding wealth similar to 100 years ago . '' -- the charts show how househld assets have been distributed over time . the main components of the various asseet categories : housing : primary home , but not the land 0 it 's on . land and other real estate : land on which primary home is built , investment property . consumer durables : automobiles , appliances , furniture . bank deposits : currency , checking-account deposits , small savings and time deposits , certificates of deposits , money-market fund shares . bonds : excludes bond funds . stocks\/mutual funds : stocks and mutual funds other than money-market funds . unincorporated business : partnerships and sole proprietorships , professional corporations . pension reserves : holdings by pension funds .