the senate 's decision to approve a bare-bones deficit-reduction bill without a capital-gains tax cut still leaves open the possibility of enacting a gains tax reduction this year . late friday night , the senate voted 87-7 to approve an estimated $ 13.5 billion measure that had been stripped of hundreds of provisions that would have widened , rather than narrowed , the federal budget deficit . lawmakers drastically streamlined the bill to blunt criticism that it was bloated with special-interest tax breaks and spending increases . `` we 're putting a deficit-reduction bill back in the category of being a deficit-reduction bill , '' said senate budget committee chairman james sasser -lrb- d. , tenn . -rrb- . but senate supporters of the trimmer legislation said that other bills would soon be moving through congress that could carry some of the measures that had been cast aside , including a capital-gains tax cut . in addition , the companion deficit-reduction bill already passed by the house includes a capital-gains provision . house-senate negotiations are likely to begin at midweek and last for a while . `` no one can predict exactly what will happen on the house side , '' said senate minority leader robert dole -lrb- r. , kan . -rrb- . but , he added 0 , `` i believe 0 republicans and democrats will work together to get capital-gains reform this year . '' white house budget director richard darman told reporters yesterday that the administration would n't push to keep the capital-gains cut in the final version of the bill . `` we do n't need this as a way 0 to get capital gains , '' he said . house budget committee chairman leon panetta -lrb- d. , calif . -rrb- said in an interview , 0 `` if that 's the signal that comes from the white house , that will help a great deal . '' the senate 's decision was a setback for president bush and will make approval of a capital-gains tax cut less certain this year . opponents of the cut are playing hardball . senate majority leader george mitchell -lrb- d. , maine -rrb- said 0 he was `` confident '' that any house-senate agreement on the deficit-reduction legislation would n't include a capital-gains tax cut . and a senior aide to the house ways and means committee , where tax legislation originates , said 0 there are n't any `` plans to produce another tax bill that could carry a gains tax cut this year . '' one obvious place 0 to attach a capital-gains tax cut , and perhaps other popular items stripped from the deficit-reduction bill , is the legislation 0 to raise the federal borrowing limit . such legislation must be enacted by the end of the month . the senate bill was pared back in an attempt to speed deficit-reduction through congress . because the legislation has n't been completed , president bush has until midnight tonight to enact across-the-board spending cuts mandated by the gramm-rudman deficit-reduction law . senators hope that the need to avoid those cuts will pressure the house to agree to the streamlined bill . the house appears reluctant to join the senators . a key is whether house republicans are willing to acquiesce to their senate colleagues ' decision to drop many pet provisions . `` although i am encouraged by the senate action , '' said chairman dan rostenkowski -lrb- d. , ill . -rrb- of the house ways and means committee , `` it is uncertain whether a clean bill can be achieved in the upcoming conference with the senate . '' another big question hovering over the debate is what president bush thinks . he has been resisting a stripped-down bill without a guaranteed vote on his capital-gains tax cut . but republican senators saw no way 0 to overcome a procedural hurdle and garner the 60 votes needed to win the capital-gains issue on the floor , so they went ahead with the streamlined bill . the senate bill was stripped of many popular , though revenue-losing , provisions , a number of which are included in the house-passed bill . these include a child-care initiative and extensions of soon-to-expire tax breaks for low-income housing and research-and-development expenditures . also missing from the senate bill is the house 's repeal of a law , called section 89 , that compels companies to give rank-and-file workers comparable health benefits to top paid executives . one high-profile provision that was originally in the senate bill but was cut out because it lost money was the proposal by chairman lloyd bentsen -lrb- d. , texas -rrb- of the senate finance committee to expand the deduction for individual retirement accounts . mr. bentsen said 0 he hopes 0 the senate will consider that measure soon . to the delight of some doctors , the bill dropped a plan passed by the finance committee that would have overhauled the entire physician-reimbursement system under medicare . to the detriment of many low-income people , efforts to boost medicaid funding , especially in rural areas , also were stricken . asked why senators were giving up so much , new mexico sen. pete domenici , the ranking republican on the senate budget committee , said , 0 `` we 're looking like idiots . things had just gone too far . '' sen. dole said that the move required sacrifice by every senator . it worked , others said 0 , because there were no exceptions : all revenue-losing provisions were stricken . the senate also dropped a plan by its finance committee that would have increased the income threshold beyond which senior citizens have their social security benefits reduced . in addition , the bill dropped a plan to make permanent a 3 % excise tax on long-distance telephone calls . it no longer includes a plan that would have repealed what remains of the completed-contract method of accounting , which is used by military contractors to reduce their tax burden . it also drops a provision that would have permitted corporations to use excess pension funds to pay health benefits for current retirees . also stricken was a fivefold increase in the maximum occupational safety and health administration penalties , which would have raised $ 65 million in fiscal 1990 . a provision that would have made the social security administration an independent agency was excised . the approval of the senate bill was especially sweet for sen. mitchell , who had proposed the streamlining . mr. mitchell 's relations with budget director darman , who pushed for a capital-gains cut to be added to the measure , have been strained since mr. darman chose to bypass the maine democrat and deal with other lawmakers earlier this year during a dispute over drug funding in the fiscal 1989 supplemental spending bill . the deficit reduction bill contains $ 5.3 billion in tax increases in fiscal 1990 , and $ 26 billion over five years . the revenue-raising provisions , which affect mostly corporations , would : -- prevent companies that have made leveraged buy-outs from getting federal tax refunds resulting from losses caused by interest payments on debt issued to finance the buy-outs , effective aug. 2 , 1989 . -- require mutual funds to include in their taxable income dividends paid to them on the date that the dividends are declared rather than received , effective the day after the tax bill is enacted . -- close a loophole regarding employee stock ownership plans , effective june 6 , 1989 , that has been exploited by investment bankers in corporate takeovers . the measure repeals a 50 % exclusion given to banks on the interest from loans used to acquire securities for an esop , if the esop owns less than 30 % of the employer 's stock . -- curb junk bonds by ending tax benefits for certain securities , such as zero-coupon bonds , that postpone cash interest payments . -- raise $ 851 million by suspending for one year an automatic reduction in airport and airway taxes . -- speed up the collection of the payroll tax from large companies , effective august 1990 . -- impose a tax on ozone-depleting chemicals , such as those used in air conditioners and in styrofoam , beginning at $ 1.10 a pound starting next year . -- withhold income taxes from the paychecks of certain farm workers currently exempt from withholding . -- change the collection of gasoline excise taxes to weekly from semimonthly , effective next year . -- restrict the ability of real estate owners to escape taxes by swapping one piece of property for another instead of selling it for cash . -- increase to $ 6 a person from $ 3 the international air-passenger departure tax , and impose a $ 3-a-person tax on international departures by commercial ships . the measure also includes spending cuts and increases in federal fees . among its provisions : -- reduction of medicare spending in fiscal 1990 by some $ 2.8 billion , in part by curbing increases in reimbursements to physicians . the plan would impose a brief freeze on physician fees next year . -- removal of the u.s. postal service 's operating budget from the federal budget , reducing the deficit by $ 1.77 billion . a similar provision is in the house version . -- authority for the federal aviation administration to raise $ 239 million by charging fees for commercial airline-landing rights at new york 's laguardia and john f. kennedy international airports , o'hare international airport in chicago and national airport in washington . -- increases in nuclear regulatory commission fees totaling $ 54 million . -- direction to the u.s. coast guard to collect $ 50 million from users of coast guard services . -- raising an additional $ 43 million by increasing existing federal communications commission fees and penalties and establishing new fees for amateur radio operators , ship stations and mobile radio facilities . john e. yang contributed to this article .