in a corner of the cavernous , new nippon convention center sits mazda motor corp. 's advanced-technology display . the highlight : a `` fragrance control system . '' with the touch of a button , drivers can choose from lavender , jasmine , mint or perfume scents , all blown in through the car 's air-conditioning system . the soft , wafting aromas will `` improve ride comfort , '' the display attests 0 , and a proud employee says 0 mazda hopes to move the system out of the lab and into its cars in a year or two . welcome to the 28th tokyo motor show . here you can find mitsubishi motors corp. displaying a `` live fish transporter , '' a truck akin to an aquarium on wheels , and nissan motor co. with its `` keyless '' boga , whose doors unlock upon recognizing the owner 's fingerprints . suzuki motor co. 's escudome sport vehicle features a pop-out rear tent and invites drivers to go `` back to the nature . '' but this biennial event , the world 's largest display of cars and trucks , has its serious side , including the first major exhibitions of future engines and vehicle-suspension systems . it 's also the prime showcase for a country whose world dominance in the industry is increasingly acknowledged , and therein lies the draw . even the biggest auto shows in the u.s. are largely regional affairs , but the tokyo show is international . virtually every automotive analyst in new york showed up . detroit-to-tokyo flights were booked solid this week as motor city executives , including ford motor co. chairman donald e. petersen and chrysler corp. vice chairman gerald greenwald , flocked to see the future . even the soviet union came , for the first time in 24 years , to show off its lada niva sedan and its futuristic dark-blue `` kompakt '' model . here 's a firsthand look at what the japanese hosts sported , and what the foreign visitors saw . new technology the hottest displays were items that insulate passengers from bumps , potholes and other rigors of the road . these `` active suspension systems '' electronically sense road conditions and adjust a car 's ride . existing suspension systems try to absorb bounces , but active suspension provides power to counter the jolts . nissan , in a 34-page tract , modestly compares its `` hydraulic active suspension '' to a cheetah , and equates the various parts to the animal 's heart , brain , nerves and blood vessels . toyota motor corp. grandly touted its system in a car that splits in half to reveal the suspension 's inner workings . nissan says 0 it will introduce its first system next month on the infiniti q45 luxury sedan , and toyota 's celica coupe will go on sale with the suspension device next spring . but drivers in the u.s. must wait : the japanese , for now , are keeping active suspension for domestic use only . and detroit 's big three auto makers say 0 their systems are still under development . in the engine department , several companies displayed experimental models that within a decade could provide power equal to today 's engines and yet take up only half the space , allowing for shorter hoods . in the so-called two-stroke engines , which are expected to get sharply higher gas mileage , each piston goes up and down only once to provide power . by contrast , the pistons in conventional four-stroke engines must move up and down twice in each power cycle . the two-stroke engine displays by toyota and fuji heavy industries , the maker of subaru cars , drew plenty of interest from u.s. auto executives , who are rushing to develop two-stroke engines . honda motor co. shows a more conventional five-cylinder engine in the new accord inspire model , which made its debut just this month -- in japan only . honda says 0 the five-cylinder engine provides a compromise between the fuel-economy of a four-cylinder , and the power of a v-6 . it is rumored to be bound for a new model in the luxury acura line in the u.s. , but honda officials would n't comment . odd cars , funny names there 's plenty of whimsy here , but it is n't always clear whether it 's intentional . the show 's symbol is a woman riding on a snail , not your usual metaphor for speed and agility . but the sponsors have an explanation : `` through the character associated with a snail , '' they say , `` important values such as harmony with nature and aspirations for the future are sought . '' japanese auto makers are known for coming up with funny names , but this year the practice seems to have reached a new high -- or low . honda has a tiny motorcycle called the monkey , and a slightly larger cousin , the gorilla . mitsubishi has a futuristic delivery truck called the guppy . mazda has the bongo truck and , under its autozam nameplate , a `` microvan '' called the scrum . its buglike carol minicar is `` designed with softness , gentleness and warmheartedness . '' but the court jester appears to be japan 's smallest car maker , daihatsu motor co . one of its futuristic concepts is the bubblelike sneaker , which seats just one person in front and could hold a small child and bag of groceries in the rear . daihatsu also has the fellow 90 , the leeza spider and the hijet dumbo . the jokes are n't just on the japanese , though . regie nationale des usines renault , the french auto maker , has a concept car called the megane . the name is supposed to connote feminine grandeur , but in japanese it means `` eyeglasses . '' foreign presence foreign auto makers are taking the tokyo motor show more seriously than ever . ab volvo invites passers-by to play `` the role of the test dummy '' by hopping in a car that simulates a crash to show just how its seat-belt tightener works . hyundai motor co. of south korea has its first-ever exhibit in tokyo . general motors corp. is sponsoring its first independent display in 10 years , and it includes a boxy buick station wagon with wood-grain side panels . ford and chrysler also have exhibits , although theirs are tucked in a separate room with the less-popular automotive parts section . `` we 've got to get out of the detroit mentality and be part of the world mentality , '' declares charles m. jordan , gm 's vice president for design , in explaining his pilgrimage to the tokyo show . even so , traditional american cockiness is n't terribly endangered . ford officials , for example , crowed about their first-ever tokyo grand prix racing victory . true , ford was declared the winner sunday , but only after the honda driver who crossed the finish line first was disqualified because it hit another car and skid momentarily out of bounds . mr. jordan of gm , meanwhile , still criticizes japanese styling . `` it 's hard for the japanese , '' he says , `` to get a feeling in a car , to get a passion in a car , to get emotion in a car .