the house approved a short-term spending bill 0 to keep the government operating through nov. 15 and provide $ 2.85 billion in emergency funds to assist in the recovery from hurricane hugo and the california earthquake . the 321-99 roll call vote reflected broad support for the disaster assistance , but the cost to the treasury is sure to aggravate budget pressures this year and next under the gramm-rudman deficit reduction law . by a lopsided 401-18 margin , the chamber rejected an effort to waive gramm-rudman for purposes of addressing the two disasters , and budget analysts estimate 0 the increased appropriations will widen the fiscal 1990 deficit by at least $ 1.44 billion unless offsetting spending cuts or new revenues are found by congress . the budget impact will be greater still in fiscal 1991 , and the issue forced a confrontation between the appropriations committee leadership and budget committee chairman leon panetta , whose california district was at the center of the earthquake last week . going to the well of the chamber , mr. panetta demanded 0 the costs be fully counted . his prominent role put him in the awkward position of challenging the very committee members on whom his state will be most dependent in the months ahead . `` we do not come to this house asking for any handout , '' said the california democrat . `` we do not intend to hide these costs from the american people . '' the $ 2.85 billion package incorporates $ 500 million for low-interest disaster loans , $ 1 billion in highway construction funds , and $ 1.35 billion divided between general emergency assistance and a reserve 0 to be available to president bush to meet unanticipated costs from the two disasters . the funds are in addition to $ 1.1 billion appropriated last month to assist in the recovery from hugo , bringing the total for the two disasters to nearly $ 4 billion in unanticipated spending . because of the vagaries of gramm-rudman , the immediate impact is relatively small . but the appropriations set in motion spending that adds to an already grim budget picture for fiscal 1991 . within the appropriations process , the situation is even more difficult since the costs will be counted against the share of funds 0 to be allocated to those subcommittees that recently have had the greatest difficulty in staying within the budget . the underlying bill approved yesterday is required to keep the government operating past midnight tonight , and this urgency has contributed to the speed -- and , critics say 0 , mistakes -- that have accompanied the package of disaster assistance . the hastily drafted measure could hurt california by requiring it to put up more matching funds for emergency highway assistance than otherwise would be required . and the state 's delegation is fearful that the new funding will be counted against a separate $ 185 million in federal highway funds 0 it would expect to receive under its normal allocation this year . also , the high price of san francisco real estate puts the state at odds with federal regulations more attuned to the national average . for example , disaster loans , which will go to small businesses and homeowners , offer credit as low as 4 % in some cases . but the san francisco delegation finds itself asking that the cap per household be lifted to $ 500,000 from $ 100,000 to assist the hard hit but often wealthy marina district . the senate is expected to make some modifications today , but both the white house and congress appear most anxious to speed final approval before tonight 's deadline . administration pressure discourages any effort to add to total funding , and the senate changes are expected to be largely technical -- dealing with highway aid and lifting the ceiling on total small business administration loans to $ 1.8 billion to accommodate the increased activity expected . yesterday 's floor action came as a house-senate conference approved a nearly $ 8.5 billion fiscal 1990 military construction bill , representing a 5 % reduction from last year and making severe cuts from pentagon requests for installations abroad . an estimated $ 25.8 million is allocated to continue work in oman . but all funding is cut for the philippines , and projects in south korea are cut to $ 13.6 million , or less than a sixth of the administration 's request . closer to home , the negotiators were more generous . an estimated $ 38.9 million was set aside for military installations in the home state of north carolina rep. w.g. hefner , the house chairman . and $ 70.2 million would go to projects in tennessee represented by his senate counterpart and fellow democrat , sen. james sasser . texas and california are traditionally powerful within the conference , but equally striking is the dominance of alaska , pennsylvania and west virginia because of their power elsewhere in the appropriations process . senate appropriations committee chairman robert byrd -lrb- d. , w.va . -rrb- even added report language listing $ 49.4 million in projects 0 he wants in the budget next year . no individual illustrated this mix of power more yesterday than sen. daniel inouye -lrb- d. , hawaii -rrb- , who chairs the senate defense subcommittee . in the final trading , the house was insistent on setting aside $ 500 million to carry out base closings ordered to begin in fiscal 1990 . but it gave ground to mr. inouye on a number of projects , ranging from a $ 11 million parking garage here , to a land transfer in hawaii , to a provision to assist the makwah indian tribe in washington state . the tribe is one of the poorest in the pacific northwest . mr. inouye , who chairs the select committee on indian affairs , used his power to move $ 400,000 from the air force to the bureau of indian affairs to assist in renovating a decommissoned base to accommodate a drug and alcohol rehabilitation center . meanwhile , house-senate negotiators have tentatively agreed on a $ 3.18 billion anti-drug and anti-crime intitiative , cutting other federal spending 0.43 % to pay for it . a formal house-senate conference is expected to ratify the accord later this week .