a volcano will erupt next month on the fabled strip : a 60-foot mountain spewing smoke and flame every five minutes . the man-made inferno will tower over a man-made lagoon with more than four acres of pools , grottoes and waterfalls . visitors , whisked from the strip on a moving walkway , will glide over a habitat for rare white tigers , which will star in performances by the famed illusionist team of siegfried & roy . nearby , six dolphins will frolic in a 1.5 million-gallon saltwater aquarium . at the core of all this stands a hotel . in the lobby behind its nine-story , orchid-strewn atrium , a 20,000-gallon aquarium will come alive with sharks , stingrays , angelfish , puffers and other creatures of the deep . and oh , yes . there 's a casino , the financial heart of it all . this is the mirage , a $ 630 million island-fantasy hotel-casino now being completed for opening in november by golden nugget inc . it 's the most stunning example of las vegas 's concerted effort to transform itself into a world-famous vacation resort for families as well as gamblers . las vegas has seen nothing quite like it before . not for 15 years has a big new hotel-casino opened here . now the mirage and circus circus enterprises inc. 's $ 290 million excalibur are going up . the excalibur , with a castlelike hotel , jousting tournaments and other arthurian attractions , will be able to handle up to 30,000 visitors a day when it opens in 1990 . if mgm grand inc. proceeds with its plan for an amusement park -- a $ 700 million movieland resort with a working studio , casino and 5,000-room hotel that would become las vegas 's biggest -- the investment in the three properties will total some $ 1.6 billion . mgm grand has agreed to buy a 117-acre site for the resort for $ 93 million in cash plus stock currently valued at nearly $ 30 million . smaller projects swell the figure to at least $ 2.5 billion . still other projects that have been announced but not yet started could put expenditures above $ 3 billion over the next few years . stephen a. wynn , who owns 29.4 % of golden nugget 's shares , says 0 the mirage and other projects will help las vegas attract a whole new generation of visitors . `` if you create a wonderment , if you create something so exciting that the public dreams of being part of it , then they 'll come , '' he says . the projects already under construction will increase las vegas 's supply of hotel rooms by 11,795 , or nearly 20 % , to 75,500 . by a rule of thumb of 1.5 new jobs for each new hotel room , clark county will have nearly 18,000 new jobs . the county at the end of 1988 had 307,000 jobs , 95,400 of them in the tourist industry . projects in the talking or blueprint stage would add a further 48,000 rooms . hotel-casino operators play down the possibility of a labor shortage . after all , 40,000 newcomers a year are settling in the las vegas valley . but nevada state labor economists think 0 a shortage is probable . nobody yet seems to have calculated the total number of slot machines , crap tables or roulette wheels 0 las vegas will add to the enormous store that lady luck already guards here , much less the ultimate impact of the growth on schools and municipal services . `` traffic is certainly a concern , as is pollution , water and an adequate labor market , '' says frank sain , executive director of the las vegas convention and visitors bureau . city fathers have managed to push through projects that are crucial for tourist growth , such as the expansion of mccarran international airport to accommodate the 44 % of las vegas tourists who fly here . this year , by one means of transport or another , more than 18 million people will visit the city . the expansion will set off a marketing war among the big hotel-casinos . las vegas promises , or threatens , to become a giant carnival , with rooms 0 to be had for $ 45 a day or less , for visitors uninspired solely by gambling . amid a riot of jousting knights , circus clowns , gold-leaf centurions and creatures of the wild , lesser competitors will fall . caesars world inc. plans to defend its august reputation by sinking $ 190 million into its opulent caesars palace , next door to the new mirage , and adding a $ 100 million shopping area reminiscent of rodeo drive . the palace , with its marble fountains and toga parties for high rollers , is already well-known for its caesarean theme . the flamingo hilton , imperial palace , frontier and others are pouring millions of dollars into facelifts , new room towers and casino floor space just to keep up . where 's this huge amount of investment capital coming from ? golden nugget , drexel burnham lambert inc. 's first casino client , has borrowed on more than $ 600 million worth of mortgage notes , mostly sold to private investors by drexel , to build the mirage . other casino owners , circus circus among them , are financing their expansion with their own cash and revolving credit lines from local lenders such as first interstate bank of nevada . will the investments pay off ? the growth of las vegas tourism in recent years persuades lenders that they will . casino revenues and hotel occupancy rates are high . last year , the tourists left $ 3 billion with the area 's casinos , nearly 10 % more than in 1987 . the people with a stake in nevada 's gambling industry believe that they have barely tapped the potentially huge family trade . `` if you build a better mousetrap , it will catch more mice , '' says fred benninger , chairman of mgm grand . ellen cokely , a tourist from alton , ill. , seems inclined to agree . `` i 'd love it if my daughter had something else 0 to do here , '' says ms. cokely , watching seven-year-old kristin on the water slide at the strip 's wet 'n' wild water park . `` two generations ago , dad came to las vegas by himself for a little diversion , '' says van heffner , executive vice president of the nevada hotel and motel association . `` one generation ago , mom joined dad . now , in the '90s , we 're headed toward a total resort environment . '' only a decade or so ago , casino managers balked at in-room tv sets and other fripperies that distracted from gambling . casinos today offer bowling alleys , water parks , golf courses , tennis courts , lush swimming pools and other diversions , and more such facilities are being designed . despite the new emphasis on the family trade , however , tourists in search of naughtier fun than gambling seem certain to find it , with las vegas call girls remaining on the scene . a serious economic downturn , pessimists observe 0 , could hurt the expansionists . for now , however , the naysayers ' voices are drowned by the roar of cement mixers and the clanging of construction cranes along the strip . this is no place for pedestrians , but at 7:30 on a recent morning , when construction choked traffic at the famous four corners intersection to one lane , a taxi passenger found it faster to abandon the cab and walk to her destination . the ferocious competition probably will drive some poorly managed properties into bankruptcy or new ownership . it has happened before . the dunes , the aladdin and the riviera were all acquired by the present owners from bankruptcy proceedings spawned by the last recession , in the early 1980s . yet that has n't discouraged investors . some have bought big chunks of strip property for what may turn into another wave of building . atlantic city casino owner donald trump is scouting the las vegas market with an eye toward building an appropriately spectacular place . even before the huge new projects began , the strip 's recent expansion squeezed smaller competitors . many blue-collar customers of downtown 's no-frills gambling spots have been lured to the strip or to laughlin , nev. , a colorado river town catering to snowbirds and the recreational-vehicle crowd . hotel expansion and an influx of more-discriminating tourists have hurt motels . since 1979 , the number of motel rooms has fallen by 17,000 . many people here expect a room-rate war as the new projects open . `` there 's probably going to be some pressure on occupancy and room rates over the next year , but after that you should see the market return to 80%-plus occupancy and regular rates , '' says paul rubeli , casino executive at ramada inc. , which runs the tropicana . skeptics wonder whether mega-resorts such as the mirage will be able to squeeze a profit from their cash flow . the mirage will cost at least $ 1 million a day to operate . mr. wynn seems confident that it will produce a healthy profit , but some securities analysts doubt it . competitors and analysts say that among large existing properties bally manufacturing corp. 's bally grand hotel-casino probably will be hardest hit among major properties . bally officials decline to discuss the situation . bally bought the former mgm grand hotel-casino from kirk kerkorian four years ago . only now is it undergoing a badly needed facelift . its parking lot is inconvenient , the mgm lion's-head logo still appears in places , and customers still call it the grand , rather than the bally grand . it has a `` great location , but they 're going to have some real problems when everyone around them opens , '' says 0 daniel lee , a drexel analyst . older properties that still have a 1950s image are also vulnerable . any hotel-casino without a strong identity will get whacked by the new competition , says 0 glenn schaeffer , senior vice president of circus circus . `` if you do n't know what you are , bigger wo n't make you better , '' he says . `` but it 'll sure make you poorer . '' circus circus 's flagship casino has become the envy of competitors for its ability to vacuum cash from the pockets of vacationing families . the circus circus lures them with low room rates , inexpensive buffets and entertainment for children at no extra charge . the company 's excalibur will also appeal to families , of course . its castle , mr. schaeffer says 0 , will be `` the most compelling piece of folk architecture ever built . '' some casino owners have resisted the temptation to add rooms . instead , they are spending to reinforce the identity that they believe 0 attracts their customers . `` more rooms are n't the answer for us , '' says caesars world chairman henry gluck . while his company 's hotel is building a retail complex in beverly hills style and redoing existing rooms , it has decreased the number of its rooms . some have been combined into suites for the high rollers . caesars has made a specialty of catering to high rollers from abroad , who are also being aggressively courted by the mirage , the las vegas hilton and others . other , smaller concerns are also pursuing market niches -- hawaiian tourists , for example , or the local trade . `` there 's still room for boutique properties , '' says james barrett , president of marcor resorts inc . off the strip , marcor is building the rio , a hotel-casino with a brazilian theme and only 430 rooms -- all of them suites . despite the proliferation of tourist distractions , las vegans have n't forgot that gambling is still what the town is all about . `` the days when when the thrust of casinos was all high rollers , with no windows and clocks and lots of red and black decor , are gone , '' mr. sain of the visitors ' bureau says . `` but 93 % of tourists still come for gambling . we ca n't lose sight of that .