certainly conservative environmentalists can defend their limited government position by differentiating between old environmentalism and new environmentalism -lrb- `` journalists and others for saving the planet , '' by david brooks , editorial page , oct. 5 -rrb- . old environmentalism involved microbe hunters and sanitationists . it started with improvements in hygiene made possible by affordable soap and washable underwear during the industrial revolution . then cast-iron sewer pipe and the flush toilet were followed by sewage - and water-treatment plants toward the end of the 19th century . medicine in the 19th century was dedicated mostly to combating sepsis and diagnostic analysis . then the 20th century saw the evolution of private-sector wonder drugs , which promulgated medical therapy . the process dramatically increased our average life expectancy , eliminated much pain and constantly improved health and well-being . most public-health measures were handled at the local level . new environmentalism probably started in 1962 with the publication of rachel carson 's book `` silent spring . '' shortly thereafter , hysterical articles began to appear predicting that advanced industrial societies would produce a blackened , uninhabitable planet possibly by the turn of the century . these apocalyptic predictions were advanced by such stalwarts as paul ehrlich , barry commoner , rene dubois and george wald . writing in the 1960s ms. carson suggested that the human race could be eliminated in 20 years , and mr. wald suggested that life on earth might end by 1985 . mr. ehrlich predicted unprecedented famine by 1980 . there were many more . thousands of chemical products were categorized as carcinogenic , with recommendations that they be banned from industrial use because they produced malignant tumors in overdosed rats . unknown before 1960 were the inconclusive effects of acid rain , greenhouse warming and ozone depletion , all of which required burgeoning political power and gargantuan expense . meanwhile , the new environmentalists systematically opposed the methods of the old environmentalists . local pollution problems require cheap energy and capital for their solution . but the new environmentalists oppose private wealth creation -lrb- which , they claim 0 , depletes natural resources -rrb- and nuclear power -lrb- even though it would counteract the greenhouse effect -rrb- . they are in the forefront of opposing the search for new landfills and methods of incineration and even oppose new methods of research such as genetic engineering . new environmentalism is an emotional attack on proven methods of improving our quality of life and a bid for political power . let 's rationalize our priorities by solving pollution problems at the local level as heretofore . harry lee smith alpharetta , ga . your story missed some essential points of the conference on `` the global environment : are we overreacting ? '' first and foremost , the vignettes presented by the various scientists represent a general consensus among specialists working in the respective aspects of the global environment . consider , for example , the greenhouse effect and climate change ; numerous blue-ribbon scientific committees , including one from the national academy of science , judge 0 there is a greater than 50 % probability of a grave problem in the offing . the point was to answer the question in the conference title , not to try to create news stories for the event itself . nor was it intended to dictate a set of prescriptive solutions , although various points were raised . each speaker was asked to address a specific topic , not deliver a point of view . each scientist independently concluded 0 society and government are underreacting when it comes to substantive policy change . this leads to a very special sense of urgency . if the media decide to work harder at educating the public about these complex and technical issues , that hardly can be termed non-objective journalism . the environment can no longer be a normal issue , to be dealt with on a business-as-usual basis with comfortable increments of change . we have literally altered the chemistry and physics of our planet 's atmosphere . this portends consequences from what we have already done that will be very destabilizing to social and economic systems . the problems of the environment are so interrelated , so inextricably entwined with our current way of life and so large that it is unlikely 0 we will be able to address them effectively unless major changes are made in less than 10 years . the consensus from the scientific community is that there is sufficient evidence to advise major policy changes . no , we are not overreacting . thomas e. lovejoy assistant secretary for external affairs smithsonian institution