many investors give michael foods about as much chance of getting it together as humpty dumpty . but now at least there 's a glimmer of hope for the stock . burger king , which breaks thousands of fresh eggs each morning , is quietly switching over to an alternative egg product made by michael foods . known as easy eggs , the product has disappointed investors . when the company this month announced lower-than-forecast sales of easy eggs , the stock dropped nearly 19 % . michael wo n't confirm the identities of any easy egg customers , nor will it say much of anything else . two minneapolis shareholder suits in the past month have accused top officers of making `` various untrue statements . '' these federal-court suits accuse the officers of failing to disclose that easy eggs were unlikely to sell briskly enough to justify all of michael 's production capacity . but at least burger king has signed on , and says that by year end it wo n't be using any shell eggs . the miami fast-food chain , owned by grand metropolitan of britain , expects to consume roughly 34 million pounds of liquefied eggs annually . so there is reason 0 to believe that michael 's hopes for a bacteria-free , long-shelf-life egg were n't all hype . -lrb- easy eggs are pasteurized in a heat-using process . -rrb- still , caution is advisable . a company official says 0 michael 's break-even volume on easy eggs is around 60 million pounds a year -- apparently well above current shipments and a far cry from what the company once suggested 0 was a billion-pound market waiting for such a product . perhaps to debunk the analysts ' talk of over-capacity , michael today will take some of the skeptics on a tour of its new gaylord , minn. , plant . there has been no announcement of the burger king arrangement by either party , possibly for fear that mcdonald 's and other fast-food rivals would seize on it in scornful advertising . but burger king operators independently confirm using michael 's product . other institutional users reportedly include marriott , which is moving away from fresh eggs on a region-by-region basis . the extent of marriott 's use is n't known , and marriott officials could n't be reached for comment . michael foods has attracted a good many short-sellers , the people who sell borrowed shares in a bet that a stock price will drop and allow the return of cheaper shares to the lender . many analysts question management 's credibility . `` the stock , in my opinion , is going to go lower , not only because of disappointing earnings but -lcb- because -rcb- the credibility gap is certainly not closing , '' says l. craig carver of dain bosworth . mr. carver says that at a recent dain-sponsored conference in new york , he asked michael 's chief executive officer if the fourth quarter would be down . the ceo , richard g. olson , replied `` yes , '' but would n't elaborate . -lrb- the company did n't put out a public announcement . a spokesman said later that mr. olson was being `` conservative '' in his estimate . but the spokesman added that while michael will earn less than last year 's $ 1.20 a share , it thinks 0 street estimates of $ 1 or so are low . -rrb- analyst robin young of john kinnard & co. , minneapolis , calls himself `` the last remaining bull on the stock . '' he argues that michael foods is misunderstood : `` this is a growth company in the packaged food industry -- a rare breed , like finding a white rhino . '' earnings are n't keeping pace , he says 0 , because of heavy investments in the egg technologies and drought-related costs in its potato business . mr. carver , however , believes 0 the company 's egg product wo n't help the bottom line in the short run , even though it `` makes sense -- it 's more convenient '' and justifies its price , which is higher than shell eggs , because of health and sanitation concerns . prospective competition is one problem . last week a closely held new jersey concern , papetti high-grade egg products co. , rolled out an aseptically packaged liquefied item called table ready . company president steve papetti says 0 marriott will be among his clients as well . michael shares closed at 13 3\/4 yesterday in national over-the-counter trading . says new york-based short seller mark cohodes , `` in my mind this is a $ 7 stock . '' michael late yesterday announced a $ 3.8 million stock buy-back program . michael , which also processes potatoes , still relies on spuds for about a fourth of its sales and nearly half its pretax profit . but dry growing conditions in the red river valley of minnesota and north dakota are pushing spot prices of potatoes beyond what michael contracted to pay last spring . company lawyers recently sent letters to growers saying that michael `` would take very seriously any effort ... to divert its contracted-for potatoes to other outlets . '' still , analysts believe that profit margins in the potato business will be down again this year .