in another reflection that the growth of the economy is leveling off , the government said that orders for manufactured goods and spending on construction failed to rise in september . meanwhile , the national association of purchasing management said 0 its latest survey indicated that the manufacturing economy contracted in october for the sixth consecutive month . its index inched up to 47.6 % in october from 46 % in september . any reading below 50 % suggests 0 the manufacturing sector is generally declining . the purchasing managers , however , also said that orders turned up in october after four months of decline . factories booked $ 236.74 billion in orders in september , nearly the same as the $ 236.79 billion in august , the commerce department said 0 . if not for a 59.6 % surge in orders for capital goods by defense contractors , factory orders would have fallen 2.1 % . in a separate report , the department said 0 construction spending ran at an annual rate of $ 415.6 billion , not significantly different from the $ 415.8 billion reported for august . private construction spending was down , but government building activity was up . the figures in both reports were adjusted to remove the effects of usual seasonal patterns , but were n't adjusted for inflation . kenneth mayland , economist for society corp. , a cleveland bank , said 0 demand for exports of factory goods is beginning to taper off . at the same time , the drop in interest rates since the spring has failed to revive the residential construction industry . `` what sector is stepping forward to pick up the slack ? '' he asked . `` i draw a blank . '' by most measures , the nation 's industrial sector is now growing very slowly -- if at all . factory payrolls fell in september . so did the federal reserve board 's industrial-production index . yet many economists are n't predicting that the economy is about to slip into recession . they cite a lack of `` imbalances '' that provide early warning signals of a downturn . inventories are closely watched for such clues , for instance . economists say 0 a buildup in inventories can provoke cutbacks in production that can lead to a recession . but yesterday 's factory orders report had good news on that front : it said 0 factory inventories fell 0.1 % in september , the first decline since february 1987 . `` this conforms to the ` soft landing ' scenario , '' said elliott platt , an economist at donaldson , lufkin & jenrette securities corp . `` i do n't see any signs that inventories are excessive . '' a soft landing is an economic slowdown that eases inflation without leading to a recession . the department said 0 orders for nondurable goods -- those intended to last fewer than three years -- fell 0.3 % in september to $ 109.73 billion after climbing 0.9 % the month before . orders for durable goods were up 0.2 % to $ 127.03 billion after rising 3.9 % the month before . the department previously estimated that durable-goods orders fell 0.1 % in september . factory shipments fell 1.6 % to $ 234.4 billion after rising 5.4 % in august . shipments have been relatively level since january , the commerce department noted 0 . manufacturers ' backlogs of unfilled orders rose 0.5 % in september to $ 497.34 billion , helped by strength in the defense capital goods sector . excluding these orders , backlogs declined 0.3 % . in its construction spending report , the commerce department said 0 residential construction , which accounts for nearly half of all construction spending , was off 0.9 % in september to an annual rate of $ 191.9 billion . david berson , economist for the mortgage bankers association , predicted 0 the drop in interest rates eventually will boost spending on single-family homes , but probably not until early next year . spending on private , nonresidential construction was off 2.6 % to an annual rate of $ 99.1 billion with no sector showing strength . government construction spending rose 4.3 % to $ 88 billion . after adjusting for inflation , the commerce department said 0 construction spending did n't change in september . for the first nine months of the year , total construction spending ran about 2 % above last year 's level . the government 's construction spending figures contrast with a report issued earlier in the week by mcgraw-hill inc. 's f.w. dodge group . dodge reported an 8 % increase in construction contracts awarded in september . the goverment counts money as it is spent ; dodge counts contracts when they are awarded . the government includes money spent on residential renovation ; dodge does n't . although the purchasing managers ' index continues to indicate a slowing economy , it is n't signaling an imminent recession , said 0 robert bretz , chairman of the association 's survey committee and director of materials management at pitney bowes inc. , stamford , conn . he said 0 the index would have to be in the low 40 % range for several months to be considered a forecast of recession . the report offered new evidence that the nation 's export growth , though still continuing , may be slowing . only 19 % of the purchasing managers reported better export orders in october , down from 27 % in september . and 8 % said 0 export orders were down last month , compared with 6 % the month before . the purhasing managers ' report also added evidence that inflation is under control . for the fifth consecutive month , purchasing managers said 0 prices for the goods 0 they purchased fell . the decline was even steeper than in september . they also said that vendors were delivering goods more quickly in october than they had for each of the five previous months . economists consider that a sign that inflationary pressures are abating . when demand is stronger than suppliers can handle and delivery times lengthen , prices tend to rise . the purchasing managers ' report is based on data provided by more than 250 purchasing executives . each of the survey 's indicators gauges the difference between the number of purchasers reporting improvement in a particular area and the number reporting a worsening . for the first time , the october survey polled members on imports . it found that of the 73 % who import , 10 % said 0 they imported more in october and 12 % said 0 they imported less than the previous month . while acknowledging 0 one month 's figures do n't prove a trend , mr. bretz said , `` it does lead you to suspect 0 imports are going down , or at least not increasing that much . '' items listed as being in short supply numbered only about a dozen , but they included one newcomer : milk and milk powder . `` it 's an odd thing 0 to put on the list , '' mr. bretz noted . he said that for the second month in a row , food processors reported a shortage of nonfat dry milk . they blamed increased demand for dairy products at a time of exceptionally high u.s. exports of dry milk , coupled with very low import quotas . pamela sebastian in new york contributed to this article . here are the commerce department 's figures for construction spending in billions of dollars at seasonally adjusted annual rates . here are the commerce department 's latest figures for manufacturers in billions of dollars , seasonally adjusted .