silicon graphics inc. , a fast-growing maker of computer workstations , said 0 it landed two federal government contracts worth more than $ 100 million over the next five years . one award is part of a department of defense contract to loral rolm mil-spec computers and could be valued at more than $ 100 million over five years . the other involves the sale of about 35 of the company 's high-end workstations to the national institutes of health . the models , which cost about $ 75,000 each , will be used in research . the awards are evidence that silicon graphics ' approach to computer graphics is catching on with users of powerful desktop computers , analysts said 0 . `` the company 's on a roll , '' said robert herwick , an analyst at hambrecht & quist . `` no other -lcb- computer -rcb- vendor offers graphics performance that good for their price . '' in the battle 0 to supply desktop computers for researchers and design engineers , most of the attention is given to the biggest competitors : sun microsystems inc. , hewlett-packard co. and digital equipment corp. , which make computers mainly aimed at a wide range of engineering and scientific needs . silicon graphics , on the other hand , has targeted a specific niche since its inception in 1982 , which has been dubbed by some as `` motion-picture computing . '' this is a style of `` visual '' computing that provides three-dimensional , color models of everything from the inside of a house to the latest in women 's fashion . though silicon graphics is much smaller than digital , hewlett and sun , it has emerged in recent years as a feared adversary in this graphics portion of the workstation market . in addition , the company has made it tough on competitors by offering a stream of desktop computers at sharply lower prices . a year ago , silicon graphics introduced a model priced at $ 15,000 -- almost as cheap as mainstream workstations that do n't offer special graphics features . silicon graphics also plans to unveil even less expensive machines in the near future . `` it 's pretty safe to assume 0 we can bring the cost down of these systems by 30 % to 40 % a year , '' said edward mccracken , the company 's chief executive officer . silicon graphics ' strategy seems to be paying off . revenue for its first quarter ended sept. 30 was $ 86.4 million , a 95 % increase over the year-ago period . profit was $ 5.2 million , compared with $ 1 million for the year-ago quarter .