japanese firms push posh car showrooms japanese luxury-car makers are trying to set strict design standards for their dealerships . but some dealers are negotiating looser terms , while others decline to deal at all . nissan motor co. 's infiniti division likes to insist that every dealer construct and furnish a building in a japanese style . specifications include a polished bronze sculpture at the center of each showroom and a tile bridge spanning a stream that flows into the building from outside . `` infiniti has it down to the ashtrays , '' says jay ferron , a partner at j.d. power & associates , an auto research firm . toyota motor corp. 's lexus division also provides specifications . but only two-thirds of lexus dealers are constructing new buildings according to the lexus specs . some are even coming up with their own novel designs . in louisville , ky. , for example , david peterson has built a lexus dealership with the showroom on the second floor . yet some dealers have turned down infiniti or lexus franchises because they were unwilling or unable to meet the design requirements . lee seidman of cleveland says 0 infiniti `` was a bear on interiors '' but at least let him retrofit an existing building -- without the stream . mr. seidman says 0 he turned down a lexus franchise in part because `` the building was gorgeous but very expensive . '' to head off arguments , infiniti offers dealers cash bonuses and low-interest construction loans . dictation device 's saga plays back a lesson products don't have to be first to be winners . that 's the lesson offered through one case study featured in a design exhibit . dictaphone corp. was caught off guard in 1974 when its main competitor , lanier office products of japan , introduced a microcassette dictation recorder half the size of standard cassette devices . blocked by patent protection from following suit , dictaphone decided to go a step further and cut the cassette in half again -- down to the length of a paperclip . by 1979 , designers and engineers at dictaphone , a pitney bowes subsidiary , had produced a working model of a `` picocassette '' recorder . by 1982 , however , the patent status of the lanier microcassette had changed , permitting dictaphone to develop its own competitive micro system , which it did . marketing and sales departments then urged abandonment of the pico project . but others said 0 pico should proceed . both were right . dictaphone went ahead and introduced the pico in 1985 , but it has n't sold well . to date , says 0 emil jachmann , a dictaphone vice president , it has `` broken even or shown a small loss . '' nevertheless , the device has been successful in other ways . it helped dictaphone attract better engineers , and it provided new technology for other company products . the picocassette recorder also helped transform the company 's reputation from follower to leading-edge innovator . `` it gave me great pride to see the inventor of the microcassette in japan look at the pico and shake his head and say ` unbelievable , ' '' says mr. jachmann . dictaphone 's picocassette recorder is one of 13 case studies in the triad design project , sponsored by the design management institute of boston and harvard business school . the studies are on exhibit at harvard this month and will travel to chicago 's institute of design and the university of california at berkeley . a rake 's progress means branching out one day carl barrett of mobile , ala. , was raking some sycamore leaves , but the rake kept riding up over the piles . the harder he tried to push them into large piles , the closer he came to breaking the rake and straining his back . so mr. barrett , then vice president of the alabama steamship association , took a steel-toothed garden rake and taped it to the underside of a leaf rake about nine inches up . his crude device worked : the lower teeth gathered the leaves into a pile , while the higher , harder teeth moved the top of the pile . now incorporated into a polypropylene rake , the four-inch prongs , or `` wonderbars , '' also are supposed to aid in picking up leaves . one customer , donald blaggs of mobile , says 0 the barrett rake allowed him to do his lawn in 2 1\/2 hours , two hours less than usual . but other rake makers have their doubts . richard mason , president of ames co. in parkersburg , w. va. , says 0 the barrett rake `` makes sense , '' but it would be `` tough '' 0 to explain to consumers . john stoner , marketing director for true temper corp. , a subsidiary of black & decker , says 0 people do n't want to move a leaf pile . `` they either pick it up , '' he says , `` or they start pulling from a fresh direction . '' odds and ends no more stubbed toes or bruised shins , promises geste corp. of goshen , ind. , the designer of a bed support 0 to replace traditional frames . four tubular steel `` bedfellows , '' each roughly in the shape of a `` w , '' are attached to the bottom of the box spring in a recessed position ... . nearly half of u.s. consumers say 0 they 'll pay up to 5 % more for packaging that can be recycled or is biodegradable , according to a survey commissioned by the michael peters group , a design consultant .