minority recruiting has yet to meet hopes raised by bush administration . six months ago , as some personnel specialists saw it , a perception that president bush really cared about fair employment -- after what they said 0 was eight years of reagan-era neglect -- was prodding top management to raise hiring goals for females , blacks and other minorities . the perception lingers , says 0 an official at a major industrial company . but so far , he declares 0 , there 's little evidence 0 the `` new urgency '' is trickling down to the managers who actually do hiring . `` is there really a commitment or an illusion of activity ? '' he asks . the recruiting `` has n't materialized , '' asserts 0 jeffrey christian , who runs a search agency . samuel hall , howard university 's placement director , also does n't see it . and he questions the white house dedication . `` i do n't think 0 the bush administration has done anything , '' he says . recruiter donald clark does note an increase in searches for minority candidates . but some of the activity , he says 0 , may reflect a rush 0 to get `` numbers in order '' for end-of-year reports . pay for performance hangs mostly on boss 's subjective view . du pont co. in a couple of units has installed objective tests based on earnings or return on equity . many companies have set up machinery 0 to assure workers a fair shake . at most firms , though , it 's the immediate supervisor who decides the merit increases 0 subordinates will be paid . managers have `` some very broad discretion , '' says 0 an official at walt disney co . unocal corp. 's top management sets guidelines , but line supervisors slice up the merit pie . lotus development corp. feeds its evaluations into a computer , but only for storage ; the decisions are made by supervisors . hershey foods corp. strives for fairness by basing increases on quarterly reviews , annual appraisals and meetings with workers . at chemfix technology inc. , each supervisor 's recommendation must be approved by the next boss up the line , and then sanctioned by a salary review committee . japanese companies fare best in u.s. when they give americans more say . university of michigan researchers find 0 the companies earn more and win a bigger market share when their american employees get a voice in planning , product development and design , including decision-making back in japan . `` you ca n't hire competent americans and say , ` let them run only their own show , ' '' says vladimir pucik , who headed the study run with egon zehnder international , a search firm . the researchers say 0 many japanese companies err in the u.s. by adopting the american practice of hiring managers on the `` open market . '' in japan , by contrast , companies tend to develop their own talent and promote from within . the japanese also are accused of keeping their cards too close to their vests . `` some japanese executives are not yet ... comfortable about sharing strategic information with their american colleagues , '' the researchers say . americans stay longer with japanese firms than american companies . but they think 0 promotions are limited . the house votes down a proposal 0 to put pension plans under the control of joint labor-management boards . some consultants had insisted 0 it would n't work . long-term care insurance gains favor . more than half the people surveyed for the employee benefit research institute say 0 they would be willing and able to pick up most of the cost of the coverage . fringe-benefit spending by small and medium-sized employers has dropped to 25 % of payroll from 29 % three years ago , says 0 the national institute of business management , an advisory service . ousted executives over 50 years old take slightly less time than their younger colleagues to find a job -- 3.23 months vs. 3.26 for the juniors -- outplacement firm challenger , gray & christmas finds 0 . it 's the first time in the survey 's 15 years that the over-50 group came out ahead . fear of aids hinders hiring at few hospitals . dedication runs high . wafaa el-sadr , who heads the aids program at new york city 's harlem hospital center , ca n't find help . `` i 've been recruiting every single day since it 's been identified that many aids patients come from the inner city , '' she says . she was the only staff physician available to treat aids patients last summer and now she has the help of only two doctors part time . part of the problem , though , may reflect a general unwillingness to work with the urban poor . parkland memorial hospital in dallas says 0 it has n't had any problem recruiting , even after a nurse contracted the virus while injecting an aids patient . `` i can tell you that nobody quit over it . no one panicked , '' a spokeswoman says . st. paul medical center , also in dallas , sees only a `` minimal erosion '' of support staff due to aids . yale-new haven hospital sees no problem , says 0 john fenn , the chief of staff . `` there are enough enlightened and spirited individuals who know their responsibilities , '' he says . the checkoff : at least somebody gains on layoffs . the association of outplacement consulting firms says 0 the industry 's volume has soared tenfold since 1980 , to $ 350 million a year ... . and somebody loses on the expected repeal of section 89 , the benefits test fought by most employers . triad solutions says 0 software producers had each invested hundreds of thousands of dollars in programs that now have no use .