mutual-fund czar john m. templeton has put his money where his moniker is , pouring $ 1.4 million into one of his own funds , the templeton value fund . mr. templeton owns shares in several of the 33 funds that his firm manages , but only in three of the 10 available to u.s. investors , according to filings with the securities and exchange commission . those are templeton global income , templeton emerging markets and now the value fund . why did he add the value fund to the list ? because he 's very bullish on the emerging growth stocks that make up the fund 's portfolio , mr. templeton said from his bahamas hideaway . `` emerging growth stocks have n't been popular in america for years , they 've been neglected , '' he said 0 , and their prices often trail the market as a whole . mr. templeton 's 147,300-share purchase in the closed-end fund came before the u.s. stock market 's plunge last friday , but still proved slightly profitable . mr. templeton bought his shares in several separate purchases between aug. 30 and sept. 28 , according to reports with the sec . he bought at share prices ranging from $ 9.375 to $ 9.625 . the fund closed yesterday in new york stock exchange composite trading at $ 9.625 , up 12.5 cents . in addition , mr. templeton received a dividend of 22 cents a share oct. 5 . river run : a senior vice president and a vice president at james river corp. sold the majority of their shares in the richmond , va. , paper-products concern in late august and early september , reports filed with the sec show 0 . the executives , who got $ 30.88 a share for the stock , showed good timing . in big board trading yesterday , james river shares closed at $ 28.375 , down 12.5 cents . on sept. 6 , robert joseph sherry , the firm 's senior vice president of employee and public relations , sold 4,000 shares , leaving himself with 1,062 shares of james river . including a sale of stock last february , mr. sherry has sold 88 % of his stake in the company this year , according to sec filings . mr. sherry declined to comment when asked about the sales . james a. toney , a vice president , sold 1,500 shares aug. 28 . he still has 1,143 shares , according to sec files . mr. toney also declined to comment . interest-rate player : cincinnati gas & electric co. tops the companies portion of the accompanying insider trading table this week . three of the utility 's directors have at least doubled their holdings in the company since july . the largest purchase was by dudley taft , who bought 4,400 shares for $ 125,075 . mr. taft , who is also president of taft broadcasting co. , said 0 he bought the shares because he keeps a utility account at the brokerage firm of salomon brothers inc. , which had recommended the stock as a good buy . salomon brothers confirmed that it has had a buy recommendation on the stock for about two years . `` cincinnati gas & electric is in good shape , '' mr. taft said 0 , and utilities are `` a good investment because interest rates are going down . '' mr. taft paid an average of $ 28.43 for each share . the stock closed yesterday on the big board at $ 28.75 , down 12.5 cents . the two other directors bought 1,000 and 1,900 shares , respectively , at prices between $ 28.15 a share and $ 28.75 a share , filings with the sec show 0 . the two could n't be reached for comment . a company spokesman said 0 he could n't explain their sudden bullishness . `` i do n't know of any news or anything unusual happening here , '' said bruce stoecklin , director of media services . peter pae in pittsburgh contributed to this article .