freight rates , declining for most of the decade because of competition spurred by deregulation , are bottoming out , turning upward and threatening to fuel inflation . trucking , shipping and air-freight companies have announced rate increases , scheduled for this fall or early next year , reflecting higher costs and tightened demand for freight transport . major shippers say 0 they expect freight rates to rise at least as fast as inflation and maybe faster in the next few years . that 's a big change from recent years when freight haulage was a bright spot for u.s. productivity , helping to restrain inflation and make u.s. industry more competitive abroad . `` demand has caught up with the supply of certain types of freight transportation , and rates are starting to move up '' at a rate `` close to or slightly more than the inflation rate , '' said clifford sayre , director of logistics at du pont co . shippers surveyed recently by ohio state university said 0 they expect their freight-transport , storage and distribution costs to rise about 4 % this year . only 10 % of the 250 shippers polled expected their freight-transport costs to decrease , compared with 30 % who had looked to freight transport to reduce costs in past years . `` this is the first year since transportation deregulation in 1980 that we have had such a dramatic and broad-based upturn in perceived transportation rates , '' said bernard lalonde , a transportation logistics professor at ohio state in columbus . the deregulation of railroads and trucking companies that began in 1980 enabled shippers to bargain for transportation . carriers could use their equipment more efficiently , leading to overcapacity 0 they were eager to fill . shippers cut about $ 35 billion from their annual , inter-city truck and rail costs , to about $ 150 billion , or about 6.4 % of gross national product , down from 8 % of gnp in 1981 . but with much of the inefficiency squeezed out of the freight-transport system , rising costs are likely to be reflected directly in higher freight rates . `` shippers are saying ` the party 's over , ' '' said mr. lalonde . `` shippers wo n't be able to look for transportation-cost savings as they have for the last eight or nine years . transport rates wo n't be an opportunity for offsetting cost increases in other segments of the economy . '' robert delaney , a consultant at arthur d. little inc. , cambridge , mass. , said `` we 've gotten all the benefits of deregulation in freight-cost reductions . now we are starting to see real freight-rate increases as carriers replace equipment , pay higher fuel costs and pay more for labor . you 'll see carriers try to recoup some of the price cutting that occurred previously . '' not everyone believes that the good times are over for shippers . `` there 's still a lot of pressure on rates in both rail and truck , '' said gerard mccullough , lecturer in transportation at massachusetts institute of technology . less-than-truckload companies , which carry the freight of several shippers in each truck trailer , discounted away a 4.7 % rate increase implemented last april . the carriers were competing fiercely for market share . railroad-rate increases are likely to be restrained by weakening rail-traffic levels and keen competition for freight from trucks . an official at consolidated freightways inc. , a menlo park , calif. , less-than-truckload carrier , said 0 rate discounting in that industry has begun to `` stabilize . '' consolidated freightways plans to raise its rates 5.3 % late this year or early next year , and at least two competitors have announced similar increases . truckers are `` trying to send signals that they need to stop the bloodletting , forget about market share and go for higher rates , '' said 0 michael lloyd , an analyst at salomon bros . and `` shippers are getting the feeling that they have played one trucker off against another as much as they can , '' he said 0 . air-freight carriers raised their rates for u.s. products going across the pacific to asia by about 20 % earlier this month . and japan air lines said 0 it plans to boost its rates a further 25 % over the next two years . such rate increases `` will increase the total cost of u.s. products and slow down the rate of increase of u.s. exports , '' said 0 richard connors , a senior vice president of yusen air & sea service u.s.a. inc. , the u.s. air-freight-forwarding subsidiary of nippon yusen kaisha of japan . ship companies carrying bulk commodities , such as oil , grain , coal and iron ore , have been able to increase their rates in the last couple of years . some bulk shipping rates have increased `` 3 % to 4 % in the past few months , '' said 0 salomon 's mr. lloyd . and ship lines carrying containers are also trying to raise their rates . carriers boosted rates more than 10 % in the north atlantic between the u.s. and europe last september , hoping to partly restore rates to earlier levels . ship lines operating in the pacific plan to raise rates on containers carrying u.s. exports to asia about 10 % , effective next april .