avery inc. said 0 it completed the sale of uniroyal chemical holding co. to a group led by management of uniroyal chemical co. , the unit 's main business . it valued the transaction at $ 800 million . avery , which continues to operate a coal company 0 it expects to sell at a loss , said in proxy materials 0 it intends to seek control of one or more companies . after fees and repayment of debt , avery is left with about $ 24 million in cash and securities from the uniroyal sale . avery paid $ 750 million , including various legal and financing fees , to acquire uniroyal chemical , middlebury , conn. , in 1986 -- a move that burdened avery with debt . in over-the-counter trading , avery shares were quoted yesterday at a bid price of 93.75 cents a share . according to avery , for the year ended sept. 30 , 1988 , uniroyal chemical had sales of $ 734.2 million and a net loss of $ 47.1 million . an avery spokesman said that the loss was magnified by accounting adjustments and that the company 's loss was smaller on a cash basis . uniroyal has 2,600 employees and facilities in the u.s. , canada , brazil , italy and taiwan . in a related development , avery said 0 it completed a recapitalization in which its controlling shareholders and top officers , nelson peltz and peter w. may , surrendered warrants and preferred stock in exchange for a larger stake in avery 's common shares . on a fully diluted basis , the two raised their stake to 68 % from 51 % . in december 1988 , messrs. peltz and may sold their stock in triangle industries inc. , a packaging company 0 they controlled , to pechiney corp. of france . the executives had profited handsomely by building american national can co. , triangle 's chief asset . in january 1989 , the two men acquired the non-packaging assets of triangle , including a controlling stake in avery and , by extension , uniroyal chemical . in the august proxy material , avery said that unless it sold uniroyal , its ability to service debt would be hurt and avery 's shareholder value would `` continue to erode . '' until avery makes an acquisition , messrs. peltz and may will waive their direct salaries and bonuses , the company said 0 . for at least the next six months , however , avery will continue to pay $ 200,000 a month for management services to a company controlled by messrs. peltz and may , according to the proxy material .