banco popular de puerto rico and banponce corp. -- agreed to merge in a transaction valued at $ 324 million . under the agreement , banponce stockholders will be able to exchange each of their shares for either shares in the new entity or cash . in each case , the exchange is valued at $ 56.25 a share . the two companies , both based in san juan , will form a bank holding company with assets of just over $ 9 billion . the holding company will be called banponce corp . the primary subsidiary will be the combined banking operations of the two companies and will be known as banco popular de puerto rico . rafael carrion jr. , chairman of banco popular , will be the chairman of the holding company . alberto m. paracchini , currently chairman of banponce , will serve as president of the bank holding company and chairman of the subsidiary . banco popular originally proposed the merger in july , in a cash and stock transaction valued at $ 50 a share , or about $ 293 million . banponce reacted cooly at first , but appeared to be won over , analysts said 0 , by banco popular 's assurances that it wanted only a friendly transaction . `` banco popular just kept waiting , '' said edward thompson , a vice president and analyst at thomson bankwatch inc. in new york . `` they got a transaction that 's good for both companies . '' the two banks appear to be a good fit . banponce caters to a more affluent customer , while banco popular has always had a large presence among middle-income and lower-income markets . the merger should also allow the companies to reduce costs by combining operations in many locations in puerto rico . `` they 're often right across the street from one another , '' mr. thompson said . richard carrion , who is currently president and chief executive officer of banco popular , said 0 the merger will result in a `` larger and stronger locally based bank . '' mr. carrion , who will now serve as president and chief executive officer of the subsidiary bank , added : `` we 'll be able to better compete with large foreign banks . it makes sense from a strategic standpoint . '' the newly merged company will have 165 branches in puerto rico and 27 branches outside of the island . the banks said 0 they do n't expect the merger to face any regulatory hurdles . mr. carrion said 0 the merger should be completed in six to nine months .