your oct. 6 editorial `` the ill homeless '' referred to research by us and six of our colleagues that was reported in the sept. 8 issue of the journal of the american medical association . your comments implied 0 we had discovered that the `` principal cause '' of homelessness is to be found in the large numbers of mentally ill and substance-abusing people in the homeless population . we have made no such statement . it is clear that most mentally ill people and most alcoholics do not become homeless . the `` causes '' of homelessness are poorly understood and complex in any individual case . in quoting from our research you emphasized the high prevalance of mental illness and alcoholism . you did not note that the homeless people 0 we examined had a multitude of physical disorders in addition to their psychiatric problems and substance abuse . they suffered from malnutrition , chest diseases , cardiovascular disorders , skin problems , infectious diseases and the aftereffects of assaults and rape . homeless people not only lack safety , privacy and shelter , they also lack the elementary necessities of nutrition , cleanliness and basic health care . in a recent report , the institute of medicine pointed out that certain health problems may predispose a person to homelessness , others may be a consequence of it , and a third category is composed of disorders whose treatment is difficult or impossible if a person lacks adequate shelter . the interactions between health and homelessness are complex , defying sweeping generalizations as to `` cause '' or `` effect . '' if we look to the future , preventing homelessness is an important objective . this will require us to develop a much more sophisticated understanding of the dynamics of homelessness than we currently possess , an understanding that can be developed only through careful study and research . william r. breakey m.d. pamela j. fischer m.d. department of psychiatry johns hopkins university school of medicine baltimore a study by tulane prof. james wright says 0 homelessness is due to a complex array of problems , with the common thread of poverty . the study shows that nearly 40 % of the homeless population is made up of women and children and that only 25 % of the homeless exhibits some combination of drug , alcohol and mental problems . according to dr. wright , homelessness is `` simultaneously a housing problem , an employment problem , a demographic problem , a problem of social disaffiliation , a mental health problem , a family violence problem , a problem created by the cutbacks in social welfare spending , a problem resulting from the decay of the traditional nuclear family , and a problem intimately connected to the recent increase in the number of persons living below the poverty level . '' leighton e. cluff m.d. president robert wood johnson foundation princeton , n.j . to quote the highly regarded director of a privately funded drop-in center for the homeless in new york : `` if you 're homeless , you do n't sleep for fear of being robbed or murdered . after your first three weeks of sleep deprivation , you 're scarcely in touch with reality any more ; without psychiatric treatment , you may well be unable to fend for yourself ever again . '' some of the homeless , obviously , had pre-existing mental illness or addiction . but many others have fallen through cracks in the economy into the grim , brutal world of our city streets . once there , what ways of escape are open to them other than drink , drugs or insanity ? maxwell r.d. vos brooklyn , n.y . you dismiss as `` sentimental '' the view that the reduction of federal housing-assistance programs by 77 % might have played a significant role in the increased number of men and women sleeping on our city streets during the reagan-bush years . there is no sign that you bothered to consider the inverse of your logic : namely , that mental illness and substance abuse might be to some degree consequences rather than causes of homelessness . your research stopped when a convenient assertion could be made . robert s. jenkins cambridge , mass . of the approximately 200 sponsors of the recent march in washington for the homeless , you chose to cite such groups as the national association of home builders and the international union of bricklayers and allied craftsmen , insinuating that the march got its major support from self-serving groups that `` know a good thing when they see it , '' and that the crusade was based on greed or the profit motive . but is n't the desire for profit the driving force behind those who subscribe to , and advertise in , your paper ? why did n't you mention the ymca or the ywca or catholic charities usa or a hundred other nonprofit organizations that participated in the march ? as for the findings on the 203 baltimore homeless who underwent psychiatric examinations , i suggest 0 you conduct your own survey . choose 203 business executives , including , perhaps , someone from your own staff , and put them out on the streets , to be deprived for one month of their homes , families and income . i would predict that within a short time most of them would find thunderbird a satisfactory substitute for chivas regal and that their `` normal '' phobias , anxieties , depressions and substance abuse would increase dramatically . ruth k. nelson cullowhee , n.c .