kemper financial services inc. , charging that program trading is ruining the stock market , cut off four big wall street firms from doing any of its stock-trading business . the move is the biggest salvo yet in the renewed outcry against program trading , with kemper putting its money -- the millions of dollars in commissions 0 it generates each year -- where its mouth is . the kemper corp. unit and other critics complain that program trading causes wild swings in stock prices , such as on tuesday and on oct. 13 and 16 , and has increased chances for market crashes . over the past nine months , several firms , including discount broker charles schwab & co. and sears , roebuck & co. 's dean witter reynolds inc. unit , have attacked program trading as a major market evil . several big securities firms backed off from program trading a few months after the 1987 crash . but most of them , led by morgan stanley & co. , moved back in earlier this year . the most volatile form of program trading is index arbitrage -- the rapid-fire , computer-guided buying and selling of stocks offset with opposite trades in stock-index futures and options . the object is to capture profits from fleeting price discrepancies between the futures and options and the stocks themselves . index arbitrage recently has accounted for about half of all program trading on the new york stock exchange . last month , program trading accounted for 20.9 million shares a day , or a record 13.8 % of the big board 's average daily volume . on tuesday afternoon , kemper told bear , stearns & co. , general electric co. 's kidder , peabody & co. unit , morgan stanley and oppenheimer & co. that it will no longer do business with them because of their commitment to index arbitrage , officials inside and outside these firms confirmed 0 . kemper officials declined to identify the firms but acknowledged a long-simmering dispute with four securities firms and said 0 the list of brokers 0 it wo n't do business with may be lengthened in the months ahead . `` we 've been opposed to '' index arbitrage `` for a long time , '' said stephen b. timbers , chief investment officer at kemper , which manages $ 56 billion , including $ 8 billion of stocks . `` index arbitrage does n't work , and it scares natural buyers '' of stock . while mr. timbers explained 0 he 's `` not totally convinced 0 index arbitrage changes the overall level of the stock market , '' he said that `` on an intraday basis , it has major effects . we 've talked to proponents of index arbitrage and told them to cool it because they 're ruining the market . they said , ` too bad , ' so we finally said 0 we 're not going to do business with them . '' kemper also blasted the big board for ignoring the interests of individual and institutional holders . `` the new york stock exchange has vested interests '' in its big member securities firms `` that cloud its objectivity , '' mr. timbers said . `` it has never been interested in what we think . the big board also has a terrible communication problem with individual investors , '' he added . small investors perceive that `` big operators '' dominate the market , said 0 thomas o'hara , chairman of the national association of investors and head of the exchange 's individual investors advisory committee set up after the 1987 crash . `` the impression 0 i 've got is 0 they 'd love to do away with it -lcb- program trading -rcb- , but they -lcb- the exchange -rcb- ca n't do it , '' he said . big board chairman john j. phelan said in a recent interview that he has no inclination to eliminate program trading . he said 0 the market 's volatility disturbs him , but that all 0 the exchange can do is `` slow down the process '' by using its circuit breakers and shock absorbers . mr. timbers countered that `` the mere fact 0 they put in circuit breakers is an admission of their problems . '' morgan stanley and kidder peabody , the two biggest program trading firms , staunchly defend their strategies . `` we continue to believe 0 the position 0 we 've taken is reasonable , '' a morgan stanley official said . `` we would stop index arbitrage when the market is under stress , and we have recently , '' he said , citing oct. 13 and earlier this week . michael carpenter , president and chief executive officer at kidder peabody , said in a recent interview , `` we do n't think that index arbitrage has a negative impact on the market as a whole . '' according to lawrence eckenfelder , a securities industry analyst at prudential-bache securities inc. , `` kemper is the first firm 0 to make a major statement with program trading . '' he added that `` having just one firm do this is n't going to mean a hill of beans . but if this prompts others to consider the same thing , then it may become much more important .