unisys corp. 's announcement friday of a $ 648.2 million loss for the third quarter showed that the company is moving even faster than expected to take write-offs on its various problems and prepare for a turnaround next year . at the same time , the sheer size of the loss , coupled with a slowing of orders , made some securities analysts wonder just how strong that turnaround will be at the computer maker and defense-electronics concern . `` unisys is getting clobbered . just clobbered , '' said ulric weil , an analyst at weil & associates who had once been high on the company . `` the quarter was terrible , and the future looks anything but encouraging . '' unisys , whose revenue inched up 3.7 % in the quarter to $ 2.35 billion from $ 2.27 billion in the year-earlier quarter , had an operating loss of about $ 30 million . on top of that , the blue bell , pa. , concern took a $ 230 million charge related to the layoffs of 8,000 employees . that is at the high end of the range of 7,000 to 8,000 employees that unisys said a month ago 0 would be laid off . unisys said 0 that should help it save $ 500 million a year in costs , again at the high end of the previously reported range of $ 400 million to $ 500 million . the company also took a write-off of $ 150 million to cover losses on some fixed-price defense contracts , as some new managers took a hard look at the prospects for that slow-growing business . in addition , unisys set up an unspecified reserve -- apparently $ 60 million to $ 70 million -- to cover the minimum amount 0 it will have to pay the government because of its involvement in the defense-procurement scandal . unisys also noted that it paid $ 78.8 million in taxes during the quarter , even though tax payments normally would be minimal in a quarter that produced such a big loss . the tax payments will leave unisys with $ 225 million in loss carry-forwards that will cut tax payments in future quarters . in addition , unisys said 0 it reduced computer inventories a further $ 100 million during the quarter , leaving it within $ 100 million of its goal of a reduction of $ 500 million by the end of the year . still , unisys said 0 its european business was weak during the quarter , a worrisome sign given that the company has relied on solid results overseas to overcome weakness in the u.s. over the past several quarters . the company also reported slower growth in another important business : systems that use the unix operating system . that would be a huge problem if it were to continue , because unisys is betting its business on the assumption that customers want to move away from using operating systems that run on only one manufacturer 's equipment and toward systems -- mainly unix -- that work on almost anyone 's machines . in addition , unisys must deal with its increasingly oppressive debt load . debt has risen to around $ 4 billion , or about 50 % of total capitalization . that means 0 unisys must pay about $ 100 million in interest every quarter , on top of $ 27 million in dividends on preferred stock . jim unruh , unisys 's president , said 0 he is approaching next year with caution . he said 0 the strength of the world-wide economy is suspect , and does n't see much revenue growth in the cards . he also said that the price wars flaring up in parts of the computer industry will continue through next year . he said 0 the move toward standard operating systems means 0 customers are n't locked into buying from their traditional computer supplier and can force prices down . that , he said 0 , is why unisys is overhauling its whole business : it needs to prepare for a world in which profit margins will be lower than computer companies have been used to . `` we 've approached this not as a response to a temporary condition in the industry but as a fundamental change 0 the industry is going through , '' mr. unruh said . `` the information-systems industry is still going to be a high-growth business , and we 're confident that we have tremendous assets as a company . but we do n't minimize the challenges of the near term . '' securities analysts were even more cautious , having been burned repeatedly on unisys this year . some had predicted earnings of more than $ 4 a share for this year , up from last year 's fully diluted $ 3.27 a share on earnings of $ 680.6 million . but the company said friday that it had losses of $ 673.3 million through the first nine months , compared with earnings a year earlier of $ 382.2 million , or $ 2.22 a share fully diluted , as revenue inched up 1.4 % to $ 7.13 billion from $ 7.03 billion . and unisys is expected to do little better than break even in the fourth quarter . so steve milunovich at first boston said 0 he is cutting his earnings estimate for next year to $ 2 a share from $ 3 . `` i was feeling like i was too high to begin with , '' he said . mr. weil of weil & associates said 0 he will remain at $ 1 a share for next year but said 0 he wonders whether even that low target is at risk . `` the break-even point for next year is much lower , but is it low enough ? '' he asked . reflecting the concern , unisys stock fell a further 75 cents to $ 16.25 in composite trading friday on the new york stock exchange .