singer bette midler won a $ 400,000 federal court jury verdict against young & rubicam in a case that threatens a popular advertising industry practice of using `` sound-alike '' performers to tout products . the decision in los angeles federal court stems from a 1985 mercury sable tv ad that young & rubicam worked up for ford motor co . the ad agency had approached ms. midler about appearing , but she declined , citing a longstanding policy of refusing advertising work . the agency then turned to a former backup singer for ms. midler who appeared in the ad and crooned what was generally considered a more than credible imitation of ms. midler 's 1973 hit song `` do you wanna dance . '' the appeals court held : `` when a distinctive voice of a professional singer is widely known and is deliberately imitated in order to sell a product , the sellers have appropriated what is not theirs . '' the judge in the jury trial said 0 there was insufficient evidence 0 to hold ford liable in the case . in a statement , young & rubicam called the award `` unfortunate but bearable . '' peter laird , a los angeles lawyer for ms. midler , said , `` we believe that the verdict reaffirms her position and our position that advertisers and advertising agencies can not with impunity imitate the voices of well-known performers . that is a property right that belongs to the performer . '' the award , although far less than the $ 10 million , including punitive damages , that ms. midler sought , is likely to force madison avenue to further rethink how they use famous songs in ads . last year 's appeals court decision , for instance , spawned several suits , reportedly including a recent action by the heirs of singer bobby darin against mcdonald 's corp. over its `` mac tonight '' tv commercials , a rough parody of mr. darin 's `` mack the knife '' trademark . the appeals-court decision last year was particularly surprising because the same court had dismissed a similar case in 1970 involving singer nancy sinatra and a tire ad -- also a young & rubicam product . ms. sinatra sued over the use of her `` these boots are made for walkin ' '' song in the ad . at that time , the court held that such a claim would interfere with federal copyright law , which has always cracked down on the unauthorized copying of songs and musical compositions but never actual performances . `` one thing that is a little unnerving is that you had three old men on the court of appeals in california coming up with a statement that nancy sinatra is not distinctive but that bette midler is . i am not sure that judges , many of whom i like very much , are proper repositories for making distinctions about pop singers , '' said richard kurnit , a new york advertising lawyer . nonetheless , mr. kurnit said that the latest decisions are having a chilling effect . `` it has made people think twice about how they use music and is forcing them to be more circumspect about doing a particular rendition of a song in its most famous form , '' he said . joanne lipman contributed to this article .