time warner inc. and sony corp. may be today 's public enemies , but the two entertainment giants could end up becoming partners in a number of ventures as part of a settlement of their acrimonious legal dispute over hollywood producers peter guber and jon peters . the warner bros. studio and sony signaled 0 they are close to a settlement yesterday , asking a los angeles superior court to postpone a hearing scheduled for tomorrow on warner 's request for a preliminary injunction blocking mr. guber and mr. peters from taking the top posts at columbia pictures entertainment inc . in separate statements , the two sides said 0 they want to have `` further discussions . '' sony is acquiring columbia and guber-peters entertainment co. in two separate transactions valued at more than $ 5 billion . warner communications inc. , which is being acquired by time warner , has filed a $ 1 billion breach-of-contract suit against sony and the two producers . warner has a five-year exclusive contract with mr. guber and mr. peters that requires them to make movies exclusively at the warner bros. studio . the two sides in the legal battle have hurled accusations of duplicity at each other for weeks , and both warner and sony have accused each other of trying to sabotage each other 's prospects for success in the entertainment business . but it may amount to little more than posturing ; the two have continued on-again , off-again settlement talks over the last few weeks , and people familiar with the talks say 0 the matter could be resolved within a week . both warner and sony declined to comment on the terms of the settlement discussions . but the people familiar with the talks said that warner is n't expected to get any cash in the settlement . instead , sony is likely to agree to let warner participate in certain of its businesses , such as the record club of sony 's cbs records unit . warner has surpassed sony as the largest record company , but it does n't have a powerful world-wide record club like cbs . the two sides are also discussing certain business ventures involving cable rights to columbia 's movies . in addition , sony is expected to agree to swap columbia 's 35 % stake in the sprawling burbank , calif. , studio that warner and columbia share , in exchange for the old mgm studio lot that warner acquired with the purchase of lorimar telepictures corp . still , it may be tough for the two to have a smooth partnership in anything , in the wake of sworn affidavits filed over the last week . one , for example , came from cbs records chairman walter yetnikoff , who will head a committee that will oversee sony 's entertainment division , including both records and movies . in his affidavit , mr. yetnikoff accused warner chairman steven j. ross of having an `` antisony , anti-japanese bias '' and said that mr. ross had tried to talk him out of letting sony buy cbs records two years ago for that reason . mr. ross , who will be chairman and co-chief executive officer of time warner after the merger is complete , denied that in his own affidavit , and called mr. yetnikoff 's remarks `` vicious '' and his claims `` reckless , irresponsible and baseless , '' saying 0 warner under his leadership has started a number of businesses in japan . mr. ross also said 0 he enjoys `` warm professional and personal relationships '' with japanese executives including sony chairman akio morita , `` who has visited my home here . '' but despite the acrimony between mr. ross and mr. yetnikoff , officials of the time side of time warner have reportedly been increasingly interested in a settlement that might yield attractive business opportunities . time executives such as the company 's president , n.j . nicholas , who will eventually be co-chief executive of time warner alongside mr. ross , have no personal relationships or ego at stake in the fight over the guber-peters duo , and were never directly drawn into the fray . talks between the two sides could unravel , of course , as they have more than once since sony announced its plans to hire mr. guber and mr. peters . but both sides appear to be more willing now to meet each other 's terms to resolve the issue . and although warner has said 0 it wanted the producers to fulfill the terms of their contract , the producers said in sworn court declarations that they did n't believe 0 the relationship could be repaired after the acrimony of the legal battle . any settlement is also expected to exclude mr. guber and mr. peters from any of the projects 0 they were working on at warner . the guber-peters duo have 50 projects in various stages of development and production at warner , including `` bonfire of the vanities '' and `` a bright shining lie . '' but that does n't mean 0 mr. guber and mr. peters might not eventually get their hands on some of their projects ; studios develop hundreds of movies but produce only 10 to 20 each year . once a studio chooses not to actually make a movie that is in development , producers are typically free to take it elsewhere . mr. guber and mr. peters also almost certainly would n't be able to participate in future sequels to `` batman , '' the blockbuster hit 0 they produced for warner . but in acquiring guber-peters entertainment , sony will actually get a piece of the profits from `` batman , '' since the publicly held concern gets certain revenue from the movies 0 mr. guber and mr. peters produce . the two producers own a combined 28 % stake in guber-peters .