columbia savings & loan association , reeling from thrift-accounting changes mandated by congress and the recent collapse of the junk-bond market , announced a loss for the third quarter of $ 226.3 million , or $ 11.57 a share . for the quarter a year ago , columbia reported earnings of $ 16.3 million , or 37 cents a share . total assets increased to $ 12.7 billion in the latest quarter from $ 12.4 billion a year earlier . the loss stems from $ 357.5 million of write-downs on columbia 's $ 4.4 billion high-yield investment securities portfolio , which includes about $ 3.7 billion of junk bonds , $ 400 million of preferred stock , and treasury securities . columbia owes its spectacular growth in recent years to its junk-bond portfolio , the largest of any u.s. thrift . much of columbia 's junk-bond trading has been done through the high-yield department of its beverly hills neighbor , drexel burnham lambert inc . for the nine months , losses totaled $ 212 million , or $ 10.83 a share , compared with net income of $ 48.7 million , or $ 1.11 a share , a year earlier . the results include a $ 130.2 million write-down of the securities in the high-yield portfolio to the lower of their cost or market value . columbia also added $ 227.3 million to reserves for losses on the portfolio , increasing general reserves to $ 300 million , or about 6.7 % of the total portfolio , as of sept. 30 . on june 30 , loss reserves stood at $ 108.3 million . thrift officials said 0 the $ 300 million reserve will be adjusted quarterly and will reflect the rate of dispositions and market conditions . the adjustments result from the recently passed thrift-industry bailout legislation , which requires thrifts to divest all high-yield bond investments by 1994 . previously , columbia did n't have to adjust the book value of its junk-bond holdings to reflect declines in market prices , because it held the bonds as long-term investments . because columbia now must sell the bonds within five years , accounting rules require the thrift to value the bonds at the lower of cost or market prices . for its future strategy , columbia officials said 0 the thrift may branch out into commercial lending or managing outside investments , as well as beefing up more traditional thrift activities . the quarterly results also reflected $ 21.4 million in non-recurring losses from commercial real-estate activities in california . thomas spiegel , columbia 's chairman , said in a statement that the thrift was `` disappointed '' by the effects of the accounting changes . but he said 0 columbia remains `` one of the most strongly capitalized thrifts in the industry , '' based on the economic value of its assets and tangible capital . columbia announced the results after the close of the stock market . its shares closed at $ 5.125 each in composite new york stock exchange trading , down 37.5 cents . the price of columbia shares has been cut nearly in half since august , when they traded at about $ 10 , as investors apparently realized that the thrift would be forced to take a big write-down . the stock 's decline accelerated in the past two weeks , from a price of $ 8 a share on oct. 9 . columbia officials said 0 they do n't know how quickly they will dispose of the thrift 's junk bonds , because federal regulations , such as those that would allow thrifts to continue holding the bonds in separately capitalized subsidiaries , have n't yet been completed . columbia officials also said 0 the thrift should n't face problems meeting regulatory capital requirements , despite the large reserves and write-downs and stiffer regulatory requirements that should be in place by year 's end . its ratio of tangible equity to total assets as of sept. 30 was 3.6 % , and total equity was $ 457.9 million . the thrift emphasized that it has a large portfolio of equity securities issued in connection with corporate restructurings and leveraged buy-outs , which has a book value of $ 90 million . although many of the transactions related to those securities have n't been completed , columbia said 0 the ultimate gain on the sale of those assets will range from $ 200 million to $ 300 million . columbia also has unrealized gains in its public equity securities portfolio of more than $ 70 million . david b. hilder in new york contributed to this article .