nashua corp. , rumored a potential takeover target for six months , said that a dutch company has sought u.s. approval to buy up to 25 % of nashua 's shares . nashua immediately responded by strengthening a poison-pill plan and saying 0 it will buy back up to one million of its shares , or 10.4 % of the 9.6 million outstanding . nashua , whose major business is selling copiers , facsimile machines and related supplies , said 0 reiss & co . b.v. of the netherlands filed a request with the federal trade commission under the hart-scott-rodino act for permission to buy more than $ 15 million of nashua 's stock but less than 25 % . previously , an affiliate of unicorp canada disclosed a stake of less than 5 % in nashua , according to daniel m. junius , nashua 's treasurer . nashua 's stock has fluctuated sharply on takeover speculation , rising to a high for the year of $ 42.875 a share in june from $ 29.75 in march . but the company has had weak results so far this year , with earnings declining 43 % to $ 13.7 million , or $ 1.43 a share , on a 4 % decline in revenue to $ 713.5 million through the first nine months of the year . its stock has slumped recently , closing unchanged friday at $ 29 a share in composite trading on the new york stock exchange ; at that price , the company has a market value of about $ 278.4 million . nashua announced the reiss request after the market closed . mr. junius said 0 nashua 's `` intention is to remain an independent public company . '' the company said 0 it amended its shareholder rights plan by reducing to 10 % from 20 % the level of ownership by an outsider that would trigger the issuance to other holders of rights to buy additional shares of nashua common at half price . in addition , the company 's board authorized the purchase of up to an additional one million shares . under a program approved by the company in 1987 that did n't specify a share amount , nashua had purchased 481,000 shares through sept. 29 . alex henderson , an analyst at prudential-bache securities , said that while nashua 's performance this year has been `` atrocious , '' the company nonetheless is attractive as a `` classic breakup candidate because there 's no similarity between its -lcb- four -rcb- businesses . '' he estimated the breakup value at $ 55 a share . in addition to selling japanese-made photocopiers and facsimile machines in europe and copier supplies in the u.s. , nashua has three other major businesses : labels and tapes , data storage disks for computers and mail-order photofinishing .