treasury undersecretary david mulford defended the treasury 's efforts this fall to drive down the value of the dollar , saying 0 it helped minimize damage from the 190-point drop in the stock market oct. 13 . testifying before a house subcommittee , mr. mulford said that if the treasury had n't intervened in foreign-exchange markets in september and early october to reduce the dollar 's value , the plunge in the stock market might have provoked a steep fall in the currency that might have `` unhinged financial markets . '' mr. mulford , responding to critics of intervention , also said 0 intervention is `` highly visible , '' is taken seriously by financial markets and works better than `` was recognized some time ago . '' differences between the treasury and the federal reserve on the usefulness of intervention 0 to help restrain the dollar resurfaced at the hearing . fed vice chairman manuel johnson , who had dissented from the treasury 's policy , told lawmakers , `` i became convinced about what looked to me like an attempt to push the dollar down against the fundamentals in the market . '' intervention , he added 0 , is useful only to smooth disorderly markets , not to fundamentally influence the dollar 's value . rep. john lafalce -lrb- d. , n.y . -rrb- said 0 mr. johnson refused to testify jointly with mr. mulford and instead asked to appear after the treasury official had completed his testimony . a fed spokesman denied mr. lafalce 's statement . mr. mulford said 0 reports of tension between the treasury and fed have been exaggerated , insisting that they involved `` nuances . '' mr. johnson also said that `` in the scheme of things , these things are minor . '' on other matters , mr. mulford said 0 west germany is contributing to imbalances in the world economy because of its success as an exporter . `` the solution is stronger domestic growth -lcb- in germany -rcb- , '' he said . but because the growth of the german economy has been stronger than expected , mr. mulford said 0 , it 's difficult for the u.s. to argue that germany ought to adopt more stimulative monetary and fiscal policies . germany 's trade surplus is largely with other european countries rather than with the u.s. , mr. mulford acknowledged 0 . but nonetheless u.s. companies might be more successful in european markets if not for the german export push , he said 0 .