natural upheavals , and most particularly earthquakes , are not only horrible realities in and of themselves , but also symbols through which the state of a society can be construed . the rubble after the armenian earthquake a year ago disclosed , quite literally , a city whose larger structures had been built with sand . the extent of the disaster stemmed from years of chicanery and bureaucratic indifference . the larger parallel after the earthquake centered south of san francisco is surely with the state of the u.s. economy . did the stock-market tremors of friday , oct. 13 , presage larger fragility , far greater upheavals ? are the engineering and architecture of the economy as vulnerable as the spans of the bay bridge ? the eerie complacency of the reagan-bush era has produced panglossian paeans about the present perfection of u.s. economic and social arrangements . a licensed government intellectual , francis fukuyama , recently announced in the national interest that history is , so to speak , at an end since the course of human progress has now culminated in the glorious full stop of american civilization . his observations were taken seriously . but we are , in reality , witnessing the continuing decline of the political economy of capitalism : not so much the end of history but the history of the end . the financial equivalent of the sand used by those armenian contractors is junk bonds and the leveraged buy-outs associated with them . builders get away with using sand and financiers junk when society decides 0 it 's okay , necessary even , to look the other way . and by the early 1980s u.s. capitalists had ample reason 0 to welcome junk bonds , to look the other way . by that time they found extremely low profit rates from non-financial corporate investment . government statistics in fact show that the profit rate -- net pretax profits divided by capital stock -- peaked in 1965 at 17.2 % . that same calculation saw profit rates fall to 4.6 % in the recession year 1982 and the supposed miracle that followed has seen the profit rate rise only to 8.1 % in 1986 and 8 % in 1987 . corresponding to the fall in profit rates was -- in the early 1980s -- the drop in the number arrived at if you divide the market value of firms by the replacement costs of their assets , the famous q ratio associated with prof. james tobin . in theory , the value attached to a firm by the market and the cost of replacing its assets should be the same . but of course the market could decide that the firm 's capital stock -- its assets -- means nothing if the firm is not producing profits . this is indeed what the market decided . by 1982 the ratio was 43.5 % , meaning that the market was valuing every dollar 's worth of the average firm 's assets at 43 cents . from the history of capitalism we can take it as a sound bet that if it takes only 43 cents to buy a dollar 's worth of a firm 's capital stock , an alert entrepreneur wo n't look the other way . his assumption is that the underlying profitability rate will go up and 0 the capital assets 0 he bought on the cheap will soon be producing profits , thus restoring the market 's faith in them . hence the lbo craze . but here is where the entrepreneur made a very risky bet , and where society was maybe foolish to look the other way . the profit rate is still low and the q ratio was only 65 % in 1987 and 68.9 % in 1988 . result : a landscape littered with lemons , huge debt burdens crushing down upon the arch and spans of corporate america . the mounting risks did not go unobserved , even in the mid-1980s . but there were enough promoters announcing the end of history -lrb- in this case suspension of normal laws of economic gravity -rrb- for society to continue shielding its eyes . mainstream economists and commentators , craning their necks up at the great pyramids of junk financing , swiveling their heads to watch the avalanche of leveraged buy-outs , claimed 0 the end result would be a leaner , meaner corporate america , with soaring productivity and profits and the weaker gone to the wall . but this is not where the rewards of junk financing were found . the beneficiaries were those financiers whose icon was the topic figure of '80s capitalism , michael milken 's $ 517 million salary in one year . left-stream economists 0 i associate with -- fellows in the union of radical political economists , most particularly robert pollin of the economics faculty at the university of california at riverside -- were not hypnotized in the manner of their pliant colleagues . all along they have been noting the tremors and pointing out the underlying realities . profit rates after the great merger wave are no higher , and now we have an extremely high-interest burden relative to cash flow . the consequences of building empires with sand are showing up . in contrast to previous estimates reckoning the default rate on junk bonds at 2 % or 3 % , a harvard study published in april of this year -lrb- and discussed in a lead story in the wall street journal for sept. 18 -rrb- found 0 the default rate on these junk bonds is 34 % . what is the consequence of a high-interest burden , high default rates and continued low profitability ? corporations need liquidity , in the form of borrowed funds . without liquidity from the junk-bond market or cash flow from profits , they look to the government , which obediently assists the natural motions of the capitalist economy with charity in the form of cuts in the capital-gains tax rate or bailouts . the consequence can be inflation , brought on as the effect of a desperate bid to avoid the deflationary shock of a sudden crash . attacks on inflation come with another strategy of capital of a very traditional sort : an assault on wages . mr. fukuyama , peering through binoculars at the end of history , said in his essay that `` the class issue has actually been successfully resolved in the west ... the egalitarianism of modern america represents the essential achievement of the classless society envisioned by marx . '' mr. fukuyama might want to consult some american workers on the subject of class and egalitarianism . from its peak in 1972 of $ 198.41 , the average american weekly wage had fallen to $ 169.28 in 1987 -- both figures being expressed in 1977 dollars . in other words , after the glory boom of the reagan years , wages had sunk from the post world war ii peak by 16 % as capitalists , helped by the government , turned down the screws or went offshore . but there are signs now -- the strikes by miners , boeing workers , telephone workers , etc. -- that this attack on wages is being more fiercely resisted . these are long-term richter readings on american capitalism . the whole structure is extremely shaky . governments have become sophisticated in handling moments of panic -lrb- a word 0 the london times forbade my father to use when he was reporting the wall street crash in 1929 -rrb- . but sophistication has its limits . the s&l bailout could cost $ 300 billion , computing interest on the government 's loans . these are real costs . under what weights will the federal deposit insurance corporation totter ? capitalism may now be engineered to withstand sudden shocks , but there are fault lines -- the crisis in profits , the assault on wages , the structural inequity of the system -- that make fools of those who claim that the future is here and that history is over . mr. cockburn is a columnist for the nation and la weekly .