efforts by the hong kong futures exchange to introduce a new interest-rate futures contract continue to hit snags , despite the support 0 the proposed instrument enjoys in the colony 's financial community . hong kong financial institutions have been waiting for interest-rate futures for a long time . the contract was first proposed more than two years ago , but shortly afterward , the colony 's markets were hit hard by the october 1987 global stock crash . the subsequent drive to reform hong kong 's markets also has embroiled the interest-rate futures contract . the securities and futures commission , a government watchdog set up after the 1987 crash to try to restore confidence and order to hong kong 's markets , had been expected to give the contract conditional approval last week . but regulators this week said 0 futures-exchange officials still have a way 0 to go before they answer all the remaining detailed questions about the contract . the exchange had forecast that the contract would begin trading by december . but securities regulators now say privately that it is n't likely to start until the first quarter of next year . analysts and financial officials in the british colony consider the new contract essential to the revival of the hong kong futures exchange , which has never fully recovered from the october 1987 crash . many believe that without a healthy futures exchange , hong kong 's aspirations to be recognized as an international financial center will suffer . in addition , local banks say 0 the new contract is important in helping them offset their hong kong-dollar exposure . the contract will be based on the three-month hong kong interbank offered rate , or hibor . it is almost a carbon copy of the chicago mercantile exchange 's eurodollar contract , which is based on the three-month eurodollar rate , the rate paid on u.s.-dollar deposits in london banks . if the contract is as successful as some expect , it may do much to restore confidence in futures trading in hong kong . `` the contract is definitely important to the exchange , '' says robert gilmore , executive director of the securities and futures commission . two years ago , the futures exchange was the envy of other would-be futures centers . after only 17 months , its main contract , based on the hang seng index , had grown to be the second-largest stock-index-futures contract in the world . -lcb- a futures contract is an agreement to buy or sell a commodity or financial instrument at a set price on a specified date . in the case of stock-index and interest-rate futures , the instruments are given an underlying cash value and are settled in cash . -rcb- but in the week following the 1987 stock crash , the exchange verged on collapse , and the stock and futures markets in hong kong were closed for four days . only a government-sponsored bailout kept the crisis from swallowing the exchange . trading in hang seng index futures remains crippled by the experience . volume for the entire month of september totaled only 21,687 contracts , compared with a daily average of 27,000 in the month before the 1987 crash . despite the thin trading , and after two painful years of restructuring , the futures market has shown itself to be resilient in two recent tests . while asian markets struggled to cope with the uncertainty caused by the oct. 13 plunge in new york stock prices , futures trading in hong kong was relatively heavy and went smoothly . that was also the case in the days following the june 4 massacre in beijing , which caused a sharp drop in hong kong stock prices . `` there was no problem at all , '' says douglas ford , chief executive officer of the futures exchange . most important to the contract 's success is the commitment of hong kong 's big financial institutions , especially the two leaders , hongkong & shanghai banking corp. and the local subsidiary of britain 's standard chartered bank plc . the two big banks were instrumental in designing the new contract . `` if those two banks are there , then the balance of the banking institutions will be there , '' says mr. gilmore , the securities and futures commission official . colony banks have a major stake in how interest rates move because of their enormous hong kong-dollar exposure . even though the currency is pegged to the u.s. dollar , with a fixed exchange rate of hk$ 7.8 to the american currency , the u.s. and hong kong economies do n't always move in lock step , making it difficult to predict where interest rates in the colony will go . in early 1988 , when the three-month eurodollar rate was between 7 % and 8 % , the three-month hibor rate was as low as 1 % . just a few months ago , the three-month eurodollar rate was around 9.5 % , while three-month hibor hit highs above 11 % . the hibor contract `` solves quite a bit of the problem of interest-rate risk in the interbank market , '' says eric cheng , a director of james capel -lrb- far east -rrb- ltd. , the hong kong arm of the british brokerage firm . despite the initial support expected , trading in the contract is likely to start slowly . the wounds from the 1987 crash have n't yet healed , and not all claims against the exchange clearinghouse -- by those who bet 0 the hang seng index would fall -- have been settled . companies and financial institutions familiar with hong kong remain wary of trading in its futures market . and mr. gilmore cautions that there may be limits on how much the contract can grow because the hong kong dollar is n't a widely traded currency . he says 0 the contract will be considered a success if it starts trading 500 to 1,000 lots a day . exchange officials also point out that hibor futures were designed for institutions and corporations , not for the type of small individual investors who were very active in hang seng index futures and defaulted in the 1987 crash . mr. cheng says 0 the low margin required for trading futures attracted a lot of small investors before the 1987 crash who did n't realize that their risk was virtually unlimited . `` you 're not going to get your taxi drivers and amahs and all that , '' says rory nicholas , a director for securities company elders bullion & futures ltd . that should help to inspire confidence , mr. gilmore says 0 . but many bankers remain nervous , especially as the start-up of the contract continues to be delayed .