sam ramirez and his men are late . they pile out of their truck and furiously begin twisting together steel pipes linking a giant storage tank to the sharpshooter , a freshly drilled oil well two miles deep . if they finish today , the sharpshooter can pump tomorrow . one roustabout , hanging by his hands from a ladder , bounces his weight on a three-foot wrench to loosen a stuck fitting . `` we 've been putting in long hours , '' mr. ramirez says -- six-day weeks and 13-hour days for the last two months . a year ago , when almost nothing was happening amid these desolate dunes , `` you 'd spend two days working and two days in the yard , '' he recalls 0 . after a three-year nightmare of uncertain oil prices , draconian budget cuts and sweeping layoffs , fear is finally leaving the oil patch . independent drillers are gingerly sinking bits into the earth 's crust again . some in big oil are easing the grip on their wallets . investment capital is creeping back , and oil properties are fetching more . oil-tool prices are even edging up . what happened ? in broadest terms , stability has quietly settled into international oil markets . mideast politics have calmed down and the squabbling within the organization of petroleum exporting countries seems under control for now . `` the fundamentals of supply and demand once again are setting oil prices , '' says victor burk , an arthur andersen & co. oil expert . after years of wild swings , oil prices over the last 12 months have settled at around $ 15 to $ 20 a barrel . that is n't the $ 40 that delighted producers a decade ago or the $ 10 that pleased users a year ago . but it is high enough to prod the search for future supplies , low enough to promote consumption and , most important , steady enough for both producers and users to believe in . not that oil suddenly is a sure thing again . the current equilibrium is fragile and depends on steady , strong demand and continued relative harmony within opec , producer of more than 40 % of the non-communist world 's crude . a recession or new opec blowup could put oil markets right back in the soup . also , the new stirrings are faint , and some question their extent . drilling activity is still far below eight years ago , there 's no hiring surge and some companies continue to shrink . with all this , even the most wary oil men agree 0 something has changed . `` it does n't appear to be getting worse . that in itself has got to cause people to feel a little more optimistic , '' says glenn cox , the president of phillips petroleum co . though modest , the change reaches beyond the oil patch , too . the same roller-coaster prices that halted u.s. oil exploration and drove many veteran oil men and companies out of the business also played havoc with the nation 's inflation rate , the trade deficit and oil users ' corporate and personal budgets . now , at least some predictability has returned , for everyone from economists to motorists . corporate planners can plan again . `` management does n't want surprises , '' notes jack zaves , who , as fuel-services director at american airlines , buys some 2.4 billion gallons of jet fuel a year . prices had been so unstable that two years ago mr. zaves gave up on long-term forecasts . and consumers `` should be comfortable , '' adds w. henson moore , u.s. deputy secretary of energy . `` i do n't see anything on the horizon that could lead to a precipitous rise in the price . '' the catalyst for all this has been opec . about a year ago , it ended an on-again , off-again internal production war that had put prices on a roller coaster and pitched oil towns from houston to caracas into recession . saudi arabia , opec 's kingpin , abandoned a policy of flooding the market to punish quota-cheaters . about the same time , the iran-iraq war , which was roiling oil markets , ended . in addition , global petroleum demand has been climbing . it is projected to keep growing by a million barrels a day , or up to 2 % annually , for years 0 to come . for opec , that 's ideal . the resulting firm prices and stability `` will allow both producers and consumers to plan confidently , '' says saudi arabian oil minister hisham nazer . opec secretary-general subroto explains : consumers offer security of markets , while opec provides security of supply . `` this is an opportune time 0 to find mutual ways 0 -lcb- to prevent -rcb- price shocks from happening again , '' he says . to promote this balance , opec now is finally confronting a long-simmering internal problem . at its november meeting , it will try to revise its quotas to satisfy persian gulf members that can produce far more oil than their allotments . being held well below capacity greatly irritates them , and has led to widespread cheating . opec has repeatedly raised its self-imposed production ceiling to legitimize some of that unauthorized output . oil ministers now hope to solve the issue for good through an iranian proposal that gives a larger share of output to countries with surplus capacity and reduces the shares of those that ca n't produce more anyway . but `` if they walk out without any effort to resolve their problem , production could increase to 23 million or 24 million barrels a day , making for a very troublesome first quarter , '' warns 0 nordine ait-laoussine , a consultant and former algerian opec delegate . that would send prices plummeting from what some gun-shy u.s. oil executives still regard as too low a level . patrick j . early , president of amoco corp. 's oil-production unit , says that despite recent stability , he plans continued tightening of costs and exploration spending . the view of some others in big oil , he maintains 0 , `` is very much -lcb- similar to -rcb- amoco 's outlook . '' just this week mobil corp. disclosed new cutbacks in its domestic exploration and production operations . out here on the querecho plains of new mexico , however , the mood is more upbeat ; trucks rumble along the dusty roads and burly men in hard hats sweat and swear through the afternoon sun . santa fe energy co. , a unit of santa fe southern pacific co. , bought from amoco the rights that allowed it to drill the sharpshooter . a mile and a half away looms the 150-foot-tall rig of the sniper , due to be pumping by december . `` talk is that everybody is going to drill more wells , '' says foreman tommy folsom . santa fe aims to drill about 30 wells in this area in 1989 and double that next year . it is more aggressive than most , but it is n't the only company with a new attitude , as it found when it went looking for a partner for the sharpshooter . `` we went to six companies over two days pitching the prospect , '' says tim parker , a santa fe exploration manager . `` five were interested . '' mitchell energy & development corp. became the partner , ponying up more than half of the $ 600,000 in drilling and start-up costs . mitchell will get a half-interest in the oil . `` a kind of no-mistakes mentality '' had been stifling activity , says don covey , mitchell 's oil exploration chief . now `` everybody is a lot more optimistic . '' one attraction for oil operators here and in other fields is the bargain-basement cost of drilling and equipment , reflecting service companies ' hunger for work . kadane oil co. , a small texas independent , is currently drilling two wells itself and putting money into three others . one of its wells , in southwestern oklahoma , is a `` rank wildcat , '' a risky well where oil previously has n't been found . `` at this price , $ 18 plus or minus , and with costs being significantly less than they were several years ago , the economics are pretty good , '' says george kadane , head of the company . `` if you know 0 you 've got stability in price , you can do things 0 you would n't do with the volatility of the past few years . '' the activity is enough to move some oil-service prices back up a little . some drill-bit prices have risen 5 % in the past month . in the gulf of mexico , a boat 0 to deliver supplies to offshore rigs now costs around $ 3,000 a day , up nearly 60 % since june . some service boats recently were auctioned for about $ 1.7 million each , up from less than $ 1 million two years ago . at the bottom of the slump , schlumberger inc. was discounting 75 % on an electronic evaluation of a well ; now it discounts about 50 % , drillers say 0 . still , there is money 0 to be made . most oil companies , when they set exploration and production budgets for this year , forecast revenue of $ 15 for each barrel of crude produced . prices have averaged more than $ 2 a barrel higher than that -- not a windfall , but at least a pleasant bonus for them . so , according to a dun & bradstreet corp. survey , companies that had been refusing to spend even their very conservative budgets may loosen up before year end . it says 0 40 % of those surveyed report that 1989 exploration spending will exceed 1988 's . funds for drilling may inch up more next year if oil prices stay stable . texaco , thinking in terms of $ 18-to-$19 oil for 1990 , may raise spending , especially for low-risk prospects , an official says 0 . outside investors , scarce since '86 , are edging back . although `` it 's still difficult to raise money for a pure wildcat program , '' says 0 william thomas , a texas commerce bank official in houston , `` institutions are starting to see 0 there are cycles to these things , and this one is beginning to turn . '' wall street generally likes the industry again . the appetite for oil-service stocks has been especially strong , although some got hit yesterday when shearson lehman hutton cut its short-term investment ratings on them . contractors such as parker drilling co. are raising cash again through stock offerings , and for the first time in years , two oil-service companies recently went public . -lrb- they are grace energy corp. of dallas and marine drilling co. of houston . -rrb- most oil companies are still reluctant to add to the office and professional staffs 0 they slashed so deeply . but a few new spots are opening . arthur andersen , the accounting firm , has increased its energy staff 10 % in a year . out in the oil fields , if activity picks up much more , shortages could appear because so many roughnecks , roustabouts and others left after the crash . already `` it 's hard to get people . they 're so busy , '' says one santa fe drilling foreman here . for most field workers , it 's about time . mr. ramirez , who arrived late at the sharpshooter with his crew because he had started early in the morning setting up tanks at another site , just got the first raise 0 he can remember in eight years , to $ 8.50 an hour from $ 8 . norman young , a `` mud-logger '' at the sniper well , has worked all but about nine days of this year . last year , `` i was off a straight month , then one time for two to three weeks and another two to three weeks , '' he says 0 . butch mccarty , who sells oil-field equipment for davis tool co. , is also busy . a native of the area , he is back now after riding the oil-field boom to the top , then surviving the bust running an oklahoma city convenience store . `` first year 0 i came back there was n't any work , '' he says . `` i think 0 it 's on the way back now . but it wo n't be a boom again . no major booms , no major setbacks , '' he predicts . business has been good enough that he just took a spur-of-the-moment weekend trip to the mountain area of cloudcroft , something `` 0 i have n't done in years . '' the figures confirm that there certainly is n't any drilling boom . only 14,505 wells , including 4,900 dry holes , were drilled for oil and natural gas in the u.s. in the first nine months of the year , down 22.4 % from the like 1988 period . but that was off less than at midyear , when completions lagged by 27.1 % . and the number of rigs active in the u.s. is inching up . according to baker hughes inc. , 992 rotary rigs were at work in the u.s. last week , up from the year-ago count of 933 . -lrb- in 1981 , before the bust , the rig count was above 4,000 . -rrb- global offshore-rig use shows a similar upward trend . some equipment going to work is almost new . grace energy just two weeks ago hauled a rig here 500 miles from caspar , wyo. , to drill the bilbrey well , a 15,000-foot , $ 1-million-plus natural gas well . the rig was built around 1980 , but has drilled only two wells , the last in 1982 . until now it had sat idle . for zel herring , owner and a cook at the sandhills luncheon cafe , a tin building in midtown , all this has made for a very good year . after 11:30 a.m. or so `` we have them standing and waiting , '' she says , as she whips out orders for hamburgers and the daily special -lrb- grilled roast beef , cheese and jalapeno pepper sandwich on whole wheat , potato salad , baked beans and pudding , plus coffee or iced tea . price : $ 4.50 -rrb- . mike huber , a roustabout , is even making it in his new career as an entrepreneur . he started arrow roustabouts inc. a year ago with a loan from a friend , since repaid , and now employs 15 . he got three trucks and a backhoe cheap . `` i want to add one more truck , '' mr. huber says . i sense that it 's going to continue to grow . that 's the word . the word is out .