the spanish author camilo jose cela won the nobel prize for literature yesterday , a surprising choice , but given the swedish academy 's past perversities , hardly the most undeserved and ridiculous accolade handed out by the awarding committee . in spain , anyway , the 73-year-old mr. cela enjoys some renown for the novels and travel books 0 he wrote during the parched franco years , the everyday poverty and stagnant atmosphere of which he described in brutally direct , vivid prose , beginning with `` the family of pascal duarte '' -lrb- 1942 -rrb- . unlike other writers who either battled the fascists during the civil war , or left spain when franco triumphed , mr. cela fought briefly on the general 's side , no doubt earning with his war wound some forbearance when he went on to depict a country with a high population of vagabonds , murderers and rural idiots trudging aimlessly through a dried-out land . still , it was in argentine editions that his countrymen first read his story of pascal duarte , a field worker who stabbed his mother to death and has no regrets as he awaits his end in a prison cell : `` fate directs some men down the flower-bordered path , and others down the road bordered with thistles and prickly pears . the lucky ones gaze out at life with serene eyes and smile with a face of innocence at their perfumed happiness . the others endure the hot sun of the plains and scowl like cornered wild beasts . '' mr. cela himself was one of the lucky ones , his fortunes steadily increasing over the decades 0 he spent putting out some 70 travelogues , novels , short story collections and poetry . these days , he is as known for his flamboyant tastes and the youthful muse who shares his life as he is for his books . the man who wore out his shoes wandering around guadalajara in 1958 , describing in his travel book `` viaje a la alcarria '' how he scrounged for food and stayed in squalid inns , now tours spain in a rolls-royce . of his 10 novels , `` the hive '' -lrb- 1951 -rrb- , full of sharp vignettes of madrid life and centered on a cafe run by dona rosa , a foul-mouthed , broad-based woman with blackened little teeth encrusted in filth , used to be available in english , translated by j.m. cohen and published by ecco press , which now no doubt regrets relinquishing its copyright . here is an excerpt : the lonely woman walks on in the direction of the plaza de alonso martinez . two men have a conversation behind one of the windows of the cafe on the corner of the boulevard . both are young , one twenty odd , the other thirty odd . the older one looks like a member of the jury for a literary award , the younger one looks like a novelist . it is evident that their conversation runs more or less on the following lines : `` i 've submitted the manuscript of my novel under the title ` teresa de cepeda , ' and in it i 've treated a few neglected aspects of that eternal problem which ... '' `` oh , yes . will you pour me a drop of water , if you do n't mind ? '' `` with pleasure . i 've revised it several times and i think 0 i may say with pride that there is not a single discordant word in the whole text . '' `` how interesting . '' `` i think so . i do n't know the quality of the works 0 my colleagues have sent in , but in any case i feel confident that good sense and honest judgment ... '' `` rest assured , we proceed with exemplary fairness . '' `` i do n't doubt it for a moment . it does not matter if one is defeated , provided 0 the work that gets the award has unmistakable qualities . what 's so discouraging is ... '' in passing the window , senorita elvira gives them a smile -- simply out of habit .