from a reading of the somewhat scant english-language medical literature on ru-486 , the french abortion pill emerges as one of the creepiest concoctions around . this is not only because it kills the unborn , a job at which it actually is not outstandingly efficient , zapping only 50 % to 85 % of them depending on which study you read -lrb- prostaglandin , taken in conjunction with the pill , boosts the rate to 95 % -rrb- . by contrast , surgical abortion is 99 % effective . abortion via the pill is far more of an ordeal than conventional surgical abortion . it is time-consuming -lrb- the abortion part alone lasts three days , and the clinical part comprises a week 's worth of visits -rrb- , bloody -lrb- one woman in a swedish trial required a transfusion , although for most it resembles a menstrual period , with bleeding lasting an average of 10 days -rrb- , and painful -lrb- many women require analgesic shots to ease them through -rrb- . nausea and vomiting are other common side effects . timing is of the essence with ru-486 . it is most effective taken about a week after a woman misses her menstrual period up through the seventh week of pregnancy , when it is markedly less effective . that is typically about a three-week window . so far , all the studies have concluded that ru-486 is `` safe . '' but `` safe , '' in the definition of marie bass of the reproductive health technologies project , means 0 `` there 's been no evidence so far of mortality . '' no one has researched the long-term effects of ru-486 on a woman 's health or fertility . the drug seems to suppress ovulation for three to seven months after it is taken . some women clearly have no trouble eventually conceiving again : the studies have reported repeaters in their programs . but there are no scientific data on this question . rather ominously , rabbit studies reveal that ru-486 can cause birth defects , lancet , the british medical journal , reported 0 in 1987 . however , dr. etienne-emile baulieu , the french physician who invented ru-486 , wrote in a science magazine article last month that the rabbit-test results could not be duplicated in rats and monkeys . the drug has a three-dimensional structure similar to that of des , the anti-miscarriage drug that has been linked to cervical and vaginal cancer in some of the daughters of the women who took it . all the published studies recommend that women on whom the drug proves ineffective not carry the pregnancy to term but undergo a surgical abortion . a risk of birth defects , a sure source of lawsuits , is one reason 0 the u.s. pharmaceutical industry is steering clear of ru-486 . one might well ask : why bother with this drug at all ? some abortion advocates have been asking themselves this very question . ru-486 `` probably represents a technical advance in an area where none is needed , or at least not very much , '' said 0 phillip stubblefield , president of the national abortion federation , at a reproductive health conference in 1986 . many physicians have expressed concern over the heavy bleeding , which occurs even if the drug fails to induce an abortion . it typically takes from eight to 10 years to obtain the food and drug administration 's approval for a new drug , and the cost of testing and marketing a new drug can range from $ 30 million to $ 70 million . the health and human services department currently forbids the national institutes of health from funding abortion research as part of its $ 8 million contraceptive program . but the population council , a 37-year-old , $ 20 million nonprofit organization that has the backing of the rockefeller and mellon foundations and currently subsidizes most u.s. research on contraceptives , has recently been paying for u.s. studies of ru-486 on a license from its french developer , roussel-uclaf , a joint subsidiary of the german pharmaceutical company hoechst and the french government . in the year since the pill went on the french market , the national organization for women and its offshoot , former now president eleanor smeal 's fund for a feminist majority , have been trying to browbeat the u.s. pharmaceutical industry into getting involved . -lrb- its scare-tactic prediction : the pill `` will be available in the u.s. , either legally or illegally , in no more than 2-5 years . '' -rrb- following the feminist and population-control lead has been a generally bovine press . a june 1988 article in mother jones magazine is typical of the general level of media ignorance . `` for a woman whose period is late , using ru-486 means no waiting , no walking past picket lines at abortion clinics , and no feet up in stirrups for surgery , '' burbles health writer laura fraser . `` it also means 0 she will never have to know whether she had actually been pregnant . '' wrong on all counts , miss fraser . ru-486 is being administered in france only under strict supervision in the presence of a doctor . -lrb- roussel reportedly has every pill marked and accounted for to make sure 0 none slips into the black market . -rrb- thus , a woman who used ru-486 to have an abortion would have to make three trips to the clinic past those picket lines ; an initial visit for medical screening -lrb- anemics and those with previous pregnancy problems are eliminated -rrb- and to take the pill , a second trip 48 hours later for the prostaglandin , administered either via injection or vaginal suppository , and a third trip a week later to make sure 0 she has completely aborted . furthermore , because timing is so critical with ru-486 , she will learn , via a pelvic examination and ultrasound , not only that she is pregnant , but just how pregnant she is . no doctor who fears malpractice liability would likely expose a non-pregnant patient to the risk of hemorrhaging . many women may even see the dead embryo 0 they have expelled , a sight 0 the surgical-abortion industry typically spares them . at seven weeks , an embryo is about three-fourths of an inch long and recognizably human . at the behest of pro-choice members of congress , a four-year reauthorization bill for title x federal family-planning assistance now contains a $ 10 million grant for `` development , evaluation and bringing to the marketplace of new improved contraceptive devices , drugs and methods . '' if this passes -- a senate version has already been cleared for a floor vote that is likely early next year -- it would put the federal government into the contraceptive marketing business for the first time . it also could put the government into the ru-486 business , which would please feminists dismayed at what they view as pusillanimity in the private-sector drug industry . we do not know whether ru-486 will be as disastrous as some of the earlier fertility-control methods released to unblinking , uncritical cheers from educated people who should have known better . -lrb- remember the dalkon shield and the early birth-control pills ? -rrb- we will not know until a first generation of female guinea pigs -- all of whom will be more than happy to volunteer for the job -- has put the abortion pill through the clinical test of time . mrs. allen is a senior editor of insight magazine . this article is adapted from one in the october american spectator .