former democratic fund-raiser thomas m. gaubert , whose savings and loan was wrested from his control by federal thrift regulators , has been granted court permission to sue the regulators . in a ruling by the fifth u.s. circuit court of appeals in new orleans , mr. gaubert received the go-ahead to pursue a claim against the federal home loan bank board and the federal home loan bank of dallas for losses 0 he suffered when the bank board closed the independent american savings association of irving , texas . mr. gaubert , who was chairman and the majority stockholder of independent american , had relinquished his control in exchange for federal regulators ' agreement to drop their inquiry into his activities at another savings and loan . as part of the agreement , mr. gaubert contributed real estate valued at $ 25 million to the assets of independent american . while under the control of federal regulators , independent american 's net worth dropped from $ 75 million to a negative $ 400 million , wiping out the value of mr. gaubert 's real estate contribution and his stock in the institution . mr. gaubert 's suit to recover his damages was dismissed last year by u.s. district judge robert maloney of dallas under the federal tort claims act , which offers broad protection for actions by federal agencies and employees . earlier this week , a fifth circuit appellate panel upheld judge maloney 's dismissal of mr. gaubert 's claim as a shareholder but said 0 the judge should reconsider mr. gaubert 's claim for the loss of his property . `` it may depend on whether there was an express or implied promise ... that the federal officials would not negligently cause the deterioration '' of independent american , the court wrote 0 . mr. gaubert 's lawyer , abbe david lowell of washington , d.c. , says 0 the impact of the ruling on other cases involving thrift takeovers will depend on the degree of similarity in the facts . `` i do n't know if this will affect one institution or a hundred , '' mr. lowell says . `` it does establish a very clear precedent for suing the fhlbb where there was none before . '' maitre'd claims in suit that restaurant fired her because she was pregnant . in a suit filed in state court in manhattan , the american civil liberties union is representing the former maitre 'd of the chic odeon restaurant . the suit , which seeks compensatory and punitive damages of $ 1 million , alleges that the firing of marcia trees levine violated new york state 's human-rights law . among other things , the law prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex and pregnancy . the suit alleges that ms. levine was fired after she refused to accept a lower paying , less visible job upon reaching her sixth month of pregnancy . ms. levine told her employer that she was pregnant in february ; a month later , the suit says 0 , the restaurant manager told ms. levine that she would be demoted to his assistant because he felt 0 customers would be uncomfortable with a pregnant maitre 'd . kary moss , an attorney with the aclu 's women 's rights project , said , `` they wanted a svelte-looking woman , and a pregnant woman is not svelte . they told her , ` we do n't hire fat people and we do n't hire cripples . and pregnant women are fat . ' '' ms. moss said 0 ms. levine secretly taped many conversations with her bosses at the odeon in which they told her 0 she was being fired as maitre 'd because she was pregnant . paul h. aloe , an attorney for odeon owner keith mcnally , denied the allegations . he said 0 ms. levine had never been fired , although she had stopped working at the restaurant . `` the odeon made a written offer to marcia levine on july 10 to return to work as the maitre 'd , at the same pay , same hours and with back pay accrued , '' he said . mr. aloe said 0 the odeon `` has no policy against hiring pregnant people . '' lawyers in texas 's biggest bank-fraud case want out in face of retrial . lawyers representing five of the seven defendants in the case say 0 their clients can no longer afford their services . the trial of the case lasted seven months and ended in september with a hung jury . the defendants were indicted two years ago on charges that they conspired to defraud five thrifts of more than $ 130 million through a complicated scheme to inflate the price of land and condominium construction along interstate 30 , east of dallas . the defense lawyers , three of whom are solo practitioners , say 0 they ca n't afford to put their law practices on hold for another seven-month trial . some of the lawyers say 0 they would continue to represent their clients if the government pays their tab as court-appointed lawyers . assistant u.s. attorney terry hart of dallas says 0 the government will oppose any efforts to bring in a new defense team because it would delay a retrial . federal judge alcee hastings of florida , facing impeachment , received an unanticipated boost yesterday . sen. arlen specter -lrb- r. , pa . -rrb- urged acquittal of the judge in a brief circulated to his senate colleagues during closed-door deliberations . among other things , the brief cited insufficient evidence . sen. specter was vice chairman of the impeachment trial committee that heard evidence in the hastings case last summer . a former prosecutor and member of the senate judiciary committee , sen. specter is expected to exercise influence when the senate votes on the impeachment today . richmond resignations : six partners in the richmond , va. , firm of browder , russell , morris & butcher announced 0 they are resigning . five of the partners -- james w. morris , philip b. morris , robert m. white , ann adams webster and jacqueline g. epps -- are opening a boutique in richmond to concentrate on corporate defense litigation , particularly in product liability cases . the sixth partner , john h. obrion , jr. , is joining cowan & owen , a smaller firm outside richmond . law firm notes : nixon , hargrave , devans & doyle , based in rochester , n.y. , has opened an office in buffalo , n.y ... . mayer , brown & platt , chicago , added two partners to its houston office , eddy j. roger jr. , and jeff c. dodd ... . copyright specialist neil boorstyn , who writes the monthly copyright law journal newsletter , is joining mccutchen , doyle , brown & enersen .