itt corp. , its insurance business hurt by hurricane hugo , reported a 4 % decline in third-quarter net income , despite a 4.2 % rise in revenue . itt also forecast a fourth-quarter blow to earnings from the california earthquake . except for insurance , however , itt said 0 it expects improved operating earnings `` in all of our businesses for the full year . '' third-quarter net income dropped to $ 221 million , or $ 1.55 a share , from $ 230 million , or $ 1.60 a share , in the year-earlier period . itt bought back 8.8 million shares this year , including 2.8 million during the third quarter . third-quarter revenue rose to $ 4.9 billion from $ 4.7 billion . in new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday , itt common stock fell 62.5 cents to close at $ 58.75 a share . in addition to insurance and finance , itt has interests in electronic parts , defense technology , automotive parts , fluid technology , pulp and timber , and communications and information services . `` hurricane hugo losses and the continuing industrywide downturn in the property and casualty insurance business were the major factors affecting quarterly comparisons , '' said rand v. araskog , chairman and chief executive officer . itt 's hartford insurance group had a $ 53 million quarterly pretax loss from hurricane hugo , itt said 0 . hartford expects to report a further pretax loss of about $ 30 million for the current quarter , as a result of the california earthquake this month , itt added 0 . the company also disclosed 0 its financial operations had increased reserves for bankrupt accounts , resulting in a $ 40 million pretax charge for the third quarter . this charge was partly offset , however , by $ 19 million in pretax capital gains . itt also said 0 its consumer finance unit agreed in september to settle a civil suit with the california attorney general over alleged improper lending and sales practices . anticipating this settlement , the company recorded a pretax charge of $ 24 million during the fourth quarter of 1988 . an itt spokesman said 0 the charge was n't publicly reported at the time . `` the company 's product businesses , with the exception of electronic components , had higher operating earnings for the first nine months of 1989 , '' the company said . elaborating on the exception , it said 0 volume and margins were lower in semiconductor and power systems operations .