wall street journal reporters called companies with headquarters or facilities in the bay area in a bid to assess the damage to their operations caused by tuesday 's earthquake . the calls reached many , but certainly not all , of the publicly held companies with operations in the area . in most cases damage to company facilities and operations was minimal . adia services inc. , menlo park , temporary personnel agency , annual sales of $ 504 million , otc , said 0 all 30 offices in bay area were working , but in various states of disarray . business was slow because many companies were closed yesterday . advanced micro devices inc. , sunnyvale , integrated circuit maker , annual sales of $ 1.12 billion , nyse , had only minor structural damage . most of its 4,500 workers were at work yesterday , and no production slowdown was anticipated as long as electricity remains available . amdahl corp. , sunnyvale , computer maker , annual sales of $ 1.8 billion , amex , was closed yesterday and no damage estimates were available . american building maintenance industries inc. , san francisco , provider of maintenance services , annual revenue of $ 582 million , nyse , had some damage to headquarters and lost phone service , but operations were moved to a branch office and are running smoothly thanks to a decentralized computer system 0 the company had developed before the quake . american president cos. , oakland , shipping concern , annual sales of $ 2.2 billion , nyse , had little damage to the cranes , dock or rail track at its container-ship facility near the collapsed route 880 overpass . the company expects to work a ship due in today with minimal delays , despite sporadic power . anacomp inc. , indianapolis , nyse , said 0 its xidex corp. unit , a sunnyvale maker of computer disks and microfilm with annual sales of $ 637 million , had only minor damage and is fully operational . anthem electronics inc. , san jose , distributor of electronic parts , annual sales of about $ 300 million , nyse , sustained very little damage , anticipated being `` in 100 % operating condition '' by midday . apple computer co. , cupertino , computer maker , annual sales of $ 4.07 billion , otc , sustained some structural damage . offices were closed yesterday . applied materials inc. , santa clara , maker of computer-chip machine systems , annual sales of $ 490 million , otc , had slight damage to headquarters , no damage to manufacturing plants . company , with 1,750 workers in area , is fully functional . atari corp. , sunnyvale , maker of personal computers and software , annual sales of $ 700 million , amex , had minor damage and expects to be fully operational by tomorrow . bankamerica corp. , san francisco , bank holding company , annual revenue of $ 10.2 billion , nyse , yesterday had no power at its headquarters , 80 of its 433 northern california branches were closed and 250 of 750 automatic teller machines were closed in the area . securities trading was conducted in a backup facility in concord . bechtel corp. , san francisco , engineering and construction concern , annual sales of $ 4 billion , had only minor structural damage at its three buildings in the city , but its computers were knocked out . backup computer tapes were hand-carried to an ibm office in philadelphia , and the company expects its mainframe to be up in a few days . workers , except for senior management , were asked not to report for work yesterday . bio-rad laboratories inc. , hercules , biological research and clinical-products leader , $ 200 million in annual sales , amex , said 0 its richmond warehouse north of san francisco was closed because of debris and fallen shelves . it expects to be fully operational by next week . borland international , scotts valley , personal computer and software designer , annual sales of $ 72 million , had heavy damage to its headquarters and was conducting business from its parking lot . the company does n't expect any shipping delays . businessland inc. , san jose , computer retail company , annual sales of $ 1.1 billion , nyse , said 0 all 16 corporate office and stores in the area were open with the exception of a retail center in san francisco 's business district . that facility should reopen today . carter hawley hale stores inc. , los angeles , retailer , annual sales of $ 2.79 billion , nyse , said 0 nine of its 22 emporium stores in the area were closed because of water damage , broken windows and fallen displays . a spokesman said 0 sales are expected to be hurt , but the losses are covered by insurance . chevron corp. , san francisco , oil company , annual sales of $ 25.2 billion , nyse , had minor damage to downtown headquarters , but structural damage closed two of its seven buildings in san ramone industrial park . company expects to be fully operational by next week . clorox co. , oakland , consumer products , annual sales of $ 1.36 billion , nyse , was closed yesterday but plans to reopen today or tomorrow . meanwhile , orders are being routed through kingsford products unit in louisville , ky. , but computer problems mean 0 they must be processed manually . expects to be fully operational early next week . coherent inc. , palo alto , laser maker , annual sales of $ 159 million , was closed yesterday but expects to reopen today . consolidated freightways inc. , menlo park , trucking company , $ 2.69 billion in annual sales , nyse , had structural damage to cf motor freight subsidiary 's office in palo alto , no damage in menlo park . cooper companies inc. , palo alto , medical products maker , annual sales of $ 628 million , nyse , had little damage and was in full operation yesterday . dayton hudson corp. , minneapolis , retailer , annual sales of $ 12.2 billion , nyse , closed seven of its 13 bay-area target discount stores and nine of its 20 mervyn 's department stores because of pending reviews by structural engineers or requests from authorities , who were trying to keep shoppers off the freeways . the company expects to reopen three target stores and all but two mervyn 's today or tomorrow . diasonics inc. , south san francisco , maker of magnetic resonance imaging equipment , annual sales of $ 281 million , amex , had minor damage , mostly in a stockroom . the company plans to be fully operational today . digital equipment corp. , maynard , mass. , computer maker , annual sales of $ 12.7 billion , nyse , had structural damage at its san francisco sales office but no appreciable damage elsewhere in the area , including its cupertino plant . dreyer's grand ice cream inc. , oakland , ice cream maker , annual sales of $ 225 million , otc , said 0 it is delivering ice cream wherever roads are passable . everex systems inc. , fremont , maker of personal computers and peripherals , annual sales of $ 377 million , otc , had minor damage and was almost fully operational yesterday . exxon corp. , new york , oil company , nyse , said 0 its refinery northeast of san francisco was operating at a slightly reduced rate as a precaution in case of aftershocks . ford motor co. , dearborn , mich. , auto maker , annual sales of $ 92.4 billion , nyse , said 0 its three ford aerospace unit facilities in the bay area , including a satellite-assembly operation in palo alto , had no major damage . gap inc. , san bruno , clothing retailer , annual sales of $ 1.25 billion , nyse , expects most of its stores to return to full operation and all 2,500 of its bay-area workers to be back at work by today . genentech inc. , south san francisco , biotechnology company , annual sales of $ 334.8 million , nyse , sustained no major damage and expects to be fully operational today . general electric co. , fairfield , conn. , consumer , industrial products and broadcasting concern , annual sales of $ 50 billion , nyse , said 0 its ge nuclear energy unit , with 1,600 bay-area employees , had only minor damage at its san jose headquarters . business was n't disrupted . general motors corp. , detroit , auto maker , annual sales of $ 123.6 billion , nyse , sustained about 10 injuries to workers and some ruptured water mains at its new united motor manufacturing inc. facility in fremont , a joint venture with toyota motor corp . there was limited production of some models yesterday , but it was n't clear when the normal 750-car-a-day pace will resume . plant officials are still assessing damage to parts suppliers and port of oakland facilities that handle shipments to the plant . golden west financial corp. , oakland , savings and loan , annual revenue of $ 1.4 billion , nyse , had only minor damage to a few branches and no injured employees . hewlett-packard co. , palo alto , personal computer and electronic equipment maker , annual sales of $ 9.8 billion , nyse , said 0 there will be a `` minimal suspension '' of manufacturing for an undefined period . the computer system was operating , so orders could be taken . the company has 18,000 employees and more than 70 buildings in the bay area . one building in palo alto may be damaged beyond repair . others had lesser damage and there were no injuries among workers . damage will be `` easily in the millions , '' the company said 0 . hexcel corp. , dublin , manufacturer of engineered parts , annual sales of $ 399 million , nyse , had little damage beyond some phone trouble . homestake mining co. , san francisco , gold and general miner , annual sales of $ 432.6 million , nyse , said 0 its headquarters was closed yesterday because of power failures and lack of water , but that it may reopen today . it expects any impact on its business to be slight . homestead financial corp. , millbrae , financial services concern , annual revenue of $ 562 million , otc , said 0 three of its 17 bay-area branches were closed yesterday . the company expects all branches to reopen today . inmac corp. , santa clara , maker of computer accessories , annual sales of $ 250 million , otc , said 0 telephones were out at its headquarters but service should be restored by today . the company said 0 it was doing a brisk business in computer power-surge protectors , cables and uninterruptable power sources . intel corp. , santa clara , semiconductor maker , annual sales of $ 2.87 billion , otc , had some damage and few people were at work yesterday . international business machines corp , armonk , n.y. , maker of business machines , nyse , said 0 flooding caused by broken water pipes closed its san jose plant , which makes high-end data-storage devices . the plant and its 8,500 employees gradually will resume operations over the next several days , the company said 0 . also closed yesterday were the company 's santa teresa software-development lab and the almaden research center . the concern 's national service division opened a center for emergency service in walnut creek as part of its disaster-recovery plan . kaiser aluminum & chemical , oakland , metal and chemical maker , annual sales of $ 2.22 billion , had slight structural damage to its 28-story headquarters building and employees stayed home yesterday to allow crews to clean up . lockheed corp. , calabasas , aerospace and defense concern , annual sales of $ 10.59 billion , nyse , said 0 its lockheed missiles & space division closed its santa cruz test facility because of power outages and landslides . the closing , affecting 266 employees , will continue at least until roads are cleared . it was n't known to what extent , if any , the facility was damaged . it also was n't known what the impact will be on the division 's work , which includes the navy 's trident submarine-based missile program and the air force 's strategic defense initiative . the division had only minor damage at its sunnyvale headquarters and plant in palo altos , and no delays in deliveries are expected . longs drug stores inc. , walnut creek , drugstore chain , annual sales of $ 1.9 billion , nyse , had only minor damage and only four of its 75 bay-area stores , all in the santa cruz area , were closed . all are expected to reopen soon . lsi logic corp. , milpitas , maker of customized integrated circuits , annual sales of $ 550 million , nyse , has halted manufacturing at its three plants in the area while they are inspected for structural damage . the company expects to resume full operations by today . r.h. macy & co. , new york , retailer , annual sales of $ 7 billion , said 0 there was minor damage to its 24 macy stores and nine i. magnin stores in the bay area . measurex corp. , cupertino , maker of computer integrated manufacturing processes , annual sales of $ 265 million , nyse , had only minor damage but workers spent most of yesterday cleaning up . national semiconductor corp. , santa clara , semiconductor maker , annual sales of $ 1.65 billion , nyse , said 0 it had no major structural damage at its 30 bay-area buildings , but two workers were injured . production resumed yesterday . piping in a waste-treatment plant needed immediate repairs . nordstrom inc. , seattle , retailer , annual sales $ 2.33 billion , otc , five of this 59-store chain 's nine stores in the bay area were closed yesterday , damage appears primarily cosmetic , hopes to reopen four of the stores by today and the fifth by saturday . oracle systems corp. , belmont , provider of computer programming and software services , annual sales $ 584 million , four of 12 offices and buildings in the belmont and san mateo areas were closed , 95 % of computer and telephone systems are operating , expects to be back to full operation by the end of the week . pacific gas & electric co. , san francisco , electric , gas and water supplier , annual sales $ 7.6 billion , some minor damage to headquarters , undetermined damage to four nearby substations , severe structural damage to a major power plant at moss landing , extensive damage to gas lines and electric lines , 400,000 residences without electricity and 69,000 without gas , can not reconnect electricity until it is certain 0 there are no gas leaks , no predictions on when this will happen . pacific telesis group , san francisco , telecommunications holding company , annual sales of $ 9.5 billion , no damage to headquarters , but no power , the power failure has caused a delay in the release of the company 's earnings report , major concern is subsidiaries , pacific bell and pacific telesis cellular , both of which sustained damage to buildings , structural damage to several cellular sites in santa cruz , volume of calls on cellular phones 10 times the usual , causing a big slowdown . procter & gamble co. , cincinnati-based company 's folgers coffee plant in south san francisco was closed following the earthquake , no injuries or major damage , other plants around country can make up for any lost production . quantum corp. , milpitas , manufactures rigid disc drives for small business computers , word processors , annual sales $ 120.8 million , otc , open for business , minor structural damage . raychem corp. , menlo park , plastics manufacturer , annual sales $ 1 billion , no major damage and no production slowdown is anticipated . ross stores inc. , newark , discount apparel chain , annual sales $ 576 million , two of 28 stores in bay area closed , both could open as early as today . safeway stores inc. , oakland , retail food chain , annual sales of $ 13.6 billion , some structural damage to headquarters and no power ; major problems transporting products to those stores that remained open ; no numbers on how many stores closed . charles schwab & co. , san francisco , discount brokerage firm , annual sales of $ 392 million , had only minor damage to headquarters building and was up and running for yesterday 's market open . firm will not , however , resume 24-hour service until power in city is restored . office closed yesterday at 4:30 p.m. edt . seagate technology , scotts valley , maker of hard disk drives for computers , annual sales of $ 1.37 billion , otc , closed to assess what appeared to be minor damage to some of its 20 buildings . southern pacific transportation co. , san francisco , railroad , annual sales of $ 2.41 billion , had only minor damage to headquarters and tracks , and expects to be fully operational tomorrow . st. louis southwestern railway co. unit halted all service tuesday night but has since restored some freight lines and limited commuter service between san francisco and san jose . sun microsystems inc. , mountain view , maker of desktop computers , annual sales $ 1.77 billion , otc , no injured employees and very little damage to buildings . closed yesterday due to power difficulties . tandem computers inc. , cupertino , computer maker , annual sales of $ 1.6 billion , nyse , said 0 it had no significant damage and should be fully operational within a week . many employees stayed home yesterday , but customer service was being maintained . transamerica corp. , san francisco , financial services and insurance company , annual sales of $ 7.9 billion , nyse , said 0 its headquarters , the well-known downtown pyramid-shaped building , was intact but closed yesterday . varian associates inc. , palo alto , instrumentation and semiconductor equipment company , annual sales of $ 1.3 billion , had only minor damage and no slowdowns were anticipated . vlsi technology inc. , san jose , maker of semiconductor products , annual sales $ 171.9 million , otc , minimal damage to facilities , no injuries , expected operations to return to normal late yesterday . watkins-johnson co. , defense-oriented electronics manufacturer , annual sales $ 292 million , nyse , minor damage to headquarters and plant in palo alto , no damage to san jose plant , `` still assessing '' damage at scotts valley plant , where main product is furnaces for semiconductor production . wells fargo & co. , san francisco , bank holding company , annual revenue $ 4.9 billion , nyse , minor damage at headquarters , 12 branches out of 170 in northern california sustained structural damage that will preclude them from opening in the near future , 45 locations with at least one automatic teller machine inoperable , central computer systems are operating , no injuries . wyse technology inc. , san jose , maker of video display terminals and workstations and ibm\/pc compatible computers , annual sales of $ 452 million , slight structural damage at headquarters , no injuries , expects to be back to full operation today . 3com corp. , santa clara , maker of computer communications systems , annual sales of $ 386 million , otc , slight structural damage to headquarters , communications systems already fully operational .