short interest in nasdaq over-the-counter stocks rose 6 % as of mid-october , its biggest jump since 6.3 % last april . the most recent otc short interest statistics were compiled oct. 13 , the day 0 the nasdaq composite index slid 3 % and the new york stock exchange tumbled 7 % . the coincidence might lead to the conclusion that short-sellers bet heavily on that day that otc stocks would decline further . as it happens , the nasdaq composite did continue to fall for two days after the initial plunge . however , the short interest figures reported by brokerage and securities clearing firms to the national association of securities dealers include only those trades completed , or settled , by oct. 13 , rather than trades that occurred on that day , according to gene finn , chief economist for the nasd . generally , it takes five business days to transfer stock and to take the other steps necessary to settle a trade . the total short interest in nasdaq stocks as of mid-october was 237.1 million shares , up from 223.7 million in september but well below the record level of 279 million shares established in july 1987 . the sharp rise in otc short interest compares with the 4.2 % decline in short interest on the new york stock exchange and the 3 % rise on the american stock exchange during the september-october period . generally , a short seller expects a fall in a stock 's price and aims to profit by selling borrowed shares that are to be replaced later ; the short seller hopes 0 the replacement shares bought later will cost less than those that were sold . short interest , which represents the number of shares borrowed and sold , but not yet replaced , can be a bad-expectations barometer for many stocks . among 2,412 of the largest otc issues , short interest rose to 196.8 million shares , from 185.7 million in 2,379 stocks in september . big stocks with large short interest gains as of oct. 13 included first executive , intel , campeau and lin broadcasting . short interest in first executive , an insurance issue , rose 55 % to 3.8 million . intel 's short interest jumped 42 % , while campeau 's increased 62 % . intel makes semiconductors and campeau operates department-store chains and is strained for cash . meritor savings again had the dubious honor of being the otc stock with the biggest short interest position on nasdaq . meritor has headed the list since may . first executive and troubled valley national corp. of arizona were next in line . short selling is n't necessarily bad for the overall market . shorted shares must eventually be replaced through buying . in addition , changes in short interest in some stocks may be caused by arbitrage . for example , an investor may seek to profit during some takeover situations by buying stock in one company involved and shorting the stock of the other . two big stocks involved in takeover activity saw their short interest surge . short interest in the american depositary receipts of jaguar , the target of both ford motor and general motors , more than doubled . nasdaq stocks that showed a drop in short interest included adobe systems , class a shares of tele-communications and takeover targets lyphomed and jerrico . the nasd , which operates the nasdaq computer system on which 5,200 otc issues trade , compiles short interest data in two categories : the approximately two-thirds , and generally biggest , nasdaq stocks that trade on the national market system ; and the one-third , and generally smaller , nasdaq stocks that are n't a part of the system . short interest in 1,327 non-nms securities totaled 40.3 million shares , compared with almost 38 million shares in 1,310 issues in september . the october short interest represents 1.04 days of average daily trading volume in the smaller stocks in the system for the reporting period , compared with 0.94 day a month ago . among bigger otc stocks , the figures represent 2.05 days of average daily volume , compared with 2.14 days in september . the adjacent tables show the issues in which a short interest position of at least 50,000 shares existed as of oct. 13 or in which there was a short position change of at least 25,000 shares since sept. 15 -lrb- see accompanying tables -- wsj oct. 25 , 1989 -rrb- .