ever since the hotly contested america 's cup race last year , the famous yachting match has run into more rough sailing out of the water than in it . now that a key member of the san diego yacht club team is splitting off to form his own team , even more competition lies ahead . peter isler , the winning navigator in the past two america 's cup challenges , has split from the team led by dennis conner , skipper of the victorious stars & stripes , to form his own team for the next contest in 1992 . and , in addition to a crack team of sailors , mr. isler has lined up some real brass 0 to help him finance the syndicate . isler sailing international 's advisory board includes ted turner , turner broadcasting chairman and a former cup victor ; peter g. diamandis , head of diamandis communications , and joseph b. vittoria , chairman and chief executive of avis inc . his steering committee includes other notable businessmen , including the california investor and old salt roy e. disney . `` we have the structure , people and plan , '' mr. isler said in a statement . now , the first order of business is raising enough money 0 to keep his team afloat -- a new yacht will cost about $ 3 million alone , and sailing syndicate budgets can easily run to $ 25 million for a cup challenge . the split comes in the midst of a court battle over whether the san diego yacht club should be allowed to keep the international trophy for sailing a catamaran against the new zealand challengers ' 90-foot monohull . in september , a new york appellate court overturned a state judge 's ruling that awarded the cup to the new zealand team . pending an appeal by the new zealand team , led by michael fay , the finals for the next cup challenge are scheduled to be held in mid-1992 in san diego . but because of the uncertainty of the outcome of the suit , mr. conner 's team has done little 0 to begin gearing up to defend its title . `` if you do n't know what the rules of the game are , it 's hard to start your fund-raising or design , '' said dana smith , an official with team dennis conner . the conner team wo n't be able to negotiate with corporate sponsors until the suit is resolved and the race site is determined , mr. smith said 0 , and the syndicate 's budget could easily reach $ 30 million . but spokesmen for both mr. isler and mr. conner say 0 the formation of the new syndicate has to do with mr. isler 's desire to skipper his own team and begin planning now , rather than any falling out between the two sportsmen . mr. smith and a spokesman for the america 's cup organizing committee insist that the added competition for the defender 's spot will only improve the race .