anheuser-busch cos. said 0 it plans to aggressively discount its major beer brands , setting the stage for a potentially bruising price war as the maturing industry 's growth continues to slow . anheuser , the world 's largest brewer and u.s. market leader , has historically been reluctant to engage in price-cutting as a means of boosting sales volume . with the passing of the heady days of swelling industry sales , however , the once-sporadic and brief forays into discounting are becoming standard competitive weapons in the beer industry . over the summer , anheuser competitors offered more and deeper discounts than industry observers have seen for a long time . some experts now predict 0 anheuser 's entry into the fray means near-term earnings trouble for all the industry players . the st. louis company said major rivals , philip morris co. 's miller brewing unit and adolph coors co. `` have been following a policy of continuous and deep discounting for at least the past 18 months '' on their premium brands , pricing their product as much as 25 cents a 12-pack below anheuser 's budweiser label in many markets . anheuser said 0 it 's discounting policy basically would involve matching such moves by rivals on a market-by-market basis . anheuser-busch announced its plan at the same time 0 it reported 0 third-quarter net income rose a lower-than-anticipated 5.2 % to $ 238.3 million , or 83 cents a share , from $ 226.5 million , or 78 cents . third-period sales were $ 2.49 billion , up from last year 's $ 2.34 billion . anheuser said 0 its new strategy -- started in some markets last month and expected to be applied soon in selected markets nationwide -- will mean lower-than-anticipated earnings for the last half of 1989 and for 1990 . the projection sent anheuser shares plunging $ 4.375 in new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday . the stock closed at $ 38.50 on heavy volume of about 3.5 million shares . shares of coors , the company 's sole publicly traded major competitor , fell $ 1.50 apiece to $ 19.125 in national over-the-counter trading , apparently on investor concerns over potential fallout from the coming pricing struggle . anheuser noted that `` beer industry sales volume is 1989 is following the trend that has characterized the last half of the '80s , with sales volume being essentially flat '' while consolidation creates fewer , bigger players . `` we can not permit a further slowing in our volume trend , '' anheuser said , adding 0 it will take `` appropriate competitive pricing actions to support our long-term market share growth strategy '' for the premium brands . anheuser said 0 it continues to hold to its earlier-announced goal of a 50 % u.s. market share by the mid-1990s . beneath the tepid news-release jargon lies a powerful threat from the brewing giant , which last year accounted for about 41 % of all u.s. beer sales and is expected to see that grow to 42.5 % in the current year . `` anheuser is the biggest guy in the bar , and he just decided to join in the barroom brawl , '' said joseph j. doyle , an analyst with smith barney , harris upham & co . `` it 's going to get bloody . '' jerry steinman , publisher of beer marketers insights , a trade newsletter , said 0 anheuser 's announcement means 0 `` everybody else in the industry is going to have a difficult time reaching their profit objectives . '' prudential-bache securities inc. analyst george e. thompson downplayed the importance of the announcement , and called any comparison between the coming beer-industry tiff and the seemingly unending `` cola wars , '' unwarranted . mr. thompson calls discounting `` a loser 's game for anyone without a dominant market share , '' and projected that anheuser 's statement of intent could simply be a means of warning competitors to ease up on price-cutting or face a costly and fruitless battle . mr. thompson noted that the disappointing earnings , which fell five cents a share short of his own projections , contributed to the sell-off by an edgy and currently unforgiving investing public . but smith barney 's mr. doyle , who yesterday trimmed his 1990 anheuser earnings projection to $ 2.95 a share from $ 3.10 , called the market 's reaction `` justified . '' while the third-quarter earnings were a `` moderate disappointment , '' he said 0 , `` the real bad news is the intensity of price competition '' in the premium-beer sector . according to mr. steinman , the newsletter publisher , anheuser 's market share is nearly twice that of its nearest competitor , miller brewing , which had a 21.2 % stake last year . it 's followed by stroh brewery co. , which has agreed to sell its assets to coors . both coors and stroh have recently been ceding market share to miller and anheuser .