maidenform inc. loves to be intimate with its customers , but not with the rest of the public . the 67-year-old maker of brassieres , panties , and lingerie enjoys one of the best-known brand images , but its financial profile is closely guarded by members of the founding family . `` there are very few companies that can boast of such a close-knit group , '' says robert a. brawer , 52 years old , recently named president , succeeding beatrice coleman , his mother-in-law , who remains chairman . `` we are a vanishing breed , '' he muses . mrs. coleman , 73 , who declined to be interviewed , is the maidenform strategist . sales have tripled during her 21-year tenure to about $ 200 million in 1988 . maidenform says 0 it is very profitable but declines to provide specifics . the company sells image . its current ad campaign , on which maidenform has spent more than $ 15 million since fall 1987 , does n't even show its underwear products , but rather men like christopher reeve , star of the `` superman '' movies , talking about their lingerie turn-ons . the maidenform name `` is part of american pop culture , '' says 0 joan sinopoli , account supervisor of the campaign by levine , huntley , schmidt & beaver , a new york ad firm . maidenform generated such memorable campaigns as `` i dreamed 0 i ... in my maidenform bra , '' and `` the maidenform woman . you never know where she 'll turn up . '' `` capitalizing on the brand is key , '' says mr. brawer , whose immediate plans include further international expansion and getting better control of distribution outside the u.s. . `` the intimate apparel industry is perceived to be a growth industry and clearly -lcb- maidenform -rcb- is a force 0 to be reckoned with , '' says david s. leibowitz , a special situations analyst at american securities corp. in new york . although working women are `` forced to wear the uniform of the day , to retain their femininity they are buying better quality , more upscale intimate apparel , '' he said . although mr. brawer 's appointment as president was long expected , the move on sept. 25 precipitated the resignation of alan lesk as senior vice president of sales and merchandising . three days later , mr. lesk was named president and chief executive officer of olga co. , a competing intimate apparel division of warnaco inc . warnaco also owns warners , another major intimate apparel maker . mr. lesk could n't be reached to comment . but maidenform officials say that after spending 24 years at maidenform , mr. lesk , 48 , made it clear 0 he wanted the top job . `` if you want the presidency of the company , this is n't the firm 0 to work for , '' says james mogan , 45 , who was named senior vice president of sales , assuming some of the responsibilities of mr. lesk . the company downplayed the loss of mr. lesk and split his merchandising responsibilities among a committee of four people . `` my style is less informal , '' mr. brawer says . top officers insist 0 maidenform 's greatest strength is its family ownership . `` you ca n't go anywhere in this company and find an organizational chart , '' one delights . `` it is fun competing as a private company , '' mr. brawer says . `` you can think long range . '' other major players in intimate apparel apparently feel the same way . warnaco was taken private by spectrum group in 1986 for about $ 487 million . and last year , playtex holdings inc. went private for about $ 680 million . it was then split into playtex apparel inc. , the intimate apparel division , and playtex family products corp. , which makes tampons , hair-care items and other products . publicly traded vf corp. , which owns vanity fair , and sara lee corp. , which owns bali co. , are also strong forces in intimate apparel . buy-out offers for maidenform are n't infrequent , says 0 executive vice president david c. masket , but they are n't taken very seriously . when he gets calls , `` i do n't even have to consult '' with mrs. coleman , mr. masket says 0 . the company could command a good price in the market . `` over the past three and a half years , apparel companies , many of whom have strong brand names , have been bought at about 60 % of sales , '' says deborah bronston , prudential-bache securities inc. apparel analyst . mr. brawer , along with mrs. coleman and her daughter , elizabeth , an attorney who is vice chairman , are the family members involved in the operations of maidenform , which employs about 5,000 . mr. brawer 's wife , catherine , and robert stroup , elizabeth 's husband , round out the five-member board . each has an equal vote at the monthly meetings . `` we are all very amiable , '' mr. brawer says . executives say 0 mrs. coleman is very involved in the day-to-day operations , especially product development . in the late 1960s she designed a lightweight stretch bra that boosted sales . her father , william rosenthal , designed the then-dress making company 's first bra in the 1920s , which he said 0 gave women a `` maiden form '' compared with the `` boyish form '' 0 they got from the `` flat bandages '' used for support at the time . while mr. rosenthal introduced new undergarment designs , his wife , ida , concentrated on sales and other financial matters . the name maidenform was coined by a third business partner , enid bissett . the company has 14 plants and distribution facilities in the u.s. , puerto rico , other parts of the caribbean and ireland . maidenform products are mainly sold at department stores , but the company has quietly opened a retail store of its own in omaha , neb. , and has 24 factory outlets , with plans to add more . before joining maidenform in 1972 , mr. brawer , who holds a doctoral degree in english from the university of chicago , taught at the university of wisconsin . as a senior vice president , he has headed the company 's designer lingerie division , oscar de la renta , since its inception in 1988 . to maintain exclusivity of that designer line , it is n't labeled with the maidenform name . while the company has always been family-run , mr. brawer is n't the first person 0 to marry into the family and subsequently head maidenform . mrs. coleman 's husband , joseph , a physician , succeeded mrs. rosenthal as president and served in that post until his death in 1968 .