polly peck international inc. 's agreement to acquire 51 % of sansui electric co. proves that foreign companies can acquire japanese companies -- if the alternative for the japanese company is extinction . polly peck , a fast-growing british conglomerate , will pay 15.6 billion yen -lrb- $ 110 million -rrb- for 39 million new shares of sansui , a well-known maker of high-fidelity audio equipment that failed to adjust to changing market conditions . japanese government officials , eager to rebut foreign criticism of japanese investments overseas , hailed the transaction as proof 0 foreigners can make similar investments in japan . polly peck 's chairman , asil nadir , echoed the official japanese view of the accord , which was announced friday . `` the myths that japan is not open to concerns from outside has , i think 0 , been demolished at a stroke , '' mr. nadir said . but analysts say 0 sansui is a special case . it expects to post a loss of 6.4 billion yen for the year ending tomorrow and its liabilities currently exceed its assets by about 13.8 billion yen . `` if you find sound , healthy companies in japan , they are not for sale , '' said george watanabe , a management-consultant at tokyo-based asia advisory services inc . statistics on acquisitions by foreigners vary in detail , because unlike sansui , which is listed on the tokyo and osaka stock exchanges , most of the japanese companies acquired by foreigners are privately held . but by all accounts foreign companies have bought only a relative handful of japanese companies this year , while japanese companies have acquired hundreds of foreign companies . nor do analysts expect the sansui deal to touch off a fresh wave of foreign purchases . if the strong yen and the high stock prices of japanese companies were n't deterrents enough , webs of cross-shareholdings between friendly japanese companies and fiercely independent japanese corporate attitudes repel most would-be acquirers . usually when a japanese company is ready to sell , it has few alternatives remaining , and the grim demeanors of sansui 's directors at a joint news conference here left little doubt that this was not the company 's finest hour . sansui was once one of japan 's premier makers of expensive , high-quality stereo gear for audiophiles . but in recent years , the market has moved toward less expensive `` mini-component '' sets , miniaturized amplifiers and receivers and software players that could be stacked on top of each other . some of sansui 's fellow audio-specialty companies , such as aiwa co. and pioneer electric corp. , responded to the challenge by quickly bringing out mini-component products of their own , by moving heavily into the booming compact disk businesses or by diversifying into other consumer-electronics fields , including laser disks or portable cassette players . sansui was late into the mini-component business and failed to branch into other new businesses . as the yen soared in recent years , sansui 's deepening financial problems became a vicious circle . while competitors moved production offshore in response to the sagging competitiveness of japanese factories , sansui lacked the money 0 to build new plants in southeast asia . `` our company has not been able to cope very effectively with '' changes in the marketplace , said ryosuke ito , sansui 's president . but even a japanese company that looks like a dog may turn out to be a good investment for a foreign concern , some management consultants maintain 0 . yoshihisa murasawa , a management consultant for booz-allen & hamilton -lrb- japan -rrb- inc. , said 0 his firm will likely be recommending acquisitions of japanese companies more often to foreign clients in the future . `` attitudes -lcb- toward being acquired -rcb- are still negative , but they 're becoming more positive , '' mr. murasawa said . `` in some industries , like pharmaceuticals , acquisitions make sense . '' whether polly peck 's acquisition makes sense remains to be seen , but at the news conference , mr. nadir brimmed with self-confidence that he can turn sansui around . sansui , he said 0 , is a perfect fit for polly peck 's electronics operations , which make televisions , videocassette recorders , microwaves and other products on an `` original equipment maker '' basis for sale under other companies ' brand names . he said 0 polly peck will greatly expand sansui 's product line , using sansui 's engineers to design the new products , and will move sansui 's production of most products other than sophisticated audio gear offshore into polly peck 's own factories . `` whatever capital it -lrb- sansui -rrb- needs so it can compete and become a totally global entity capable of competing with the best in the world , that capital will be injected , '' mr. nadir said . and while polly peck is n't jettisoning the existent top-management structure of sansui , it is bringing in a former toshiba corp. executive as executive vice president and chief operating officer . such risk taking is an everyday matter for the brash mr. nadir , who is 25 % owner of polly peck as well as its chairman . he took polly peck , once a small fabric wholesaler , and used it at as a base 0 to build a conglomerate that has been doubling its profits annually since 1980 . in september , it announced plans to acquire the tropical-fruit business of rjr nabisco inc. 's del monte foods unit for # 557 million -lrb- $ 878 million -rrb- . last month , polly peck posted a 38 % jump in pretax profit for the first half to # 54.8 million from # 39.8 million on a 63 % rise in sales . joann s. lublin in london contributed to this article .