a house-senate conference approved major portions of a package for more than $ 500 million in economic aid for poland that relies heavily on $ 240 million in credit and loan guarantees in fiscal 1990 in hopes of stimulating future trade and investment . for the agency for international development , appropriators approved $ 200 million in secondary loan guarantees under an expanded trade credit insurance program , and total loan guarantees for the overseas private investment corp. are increased by $ 40 million over fiscal 1989 as part of the same poland package . the conference approved at least $ 55 million in direct cash and development assistance as well , and though no decision was made , both sides are committed to adding more than $ 200 million in economic support funds and environmental initiatives sought by the bush administration . the agreement on poland contrasts with the major differences remaining over the underlying foreign aid bill , which has already provoked veto threats by the white house and is sharply confined under this year 's budget . these fiscal pressures are also a factor in shaping the poland package , and while more ambitious authorizing legislation is still pending , the appropriations bill in conference will be more decisive on u.s. aid to eastern europe . to accommodate the additional cash assistance , the house appropriations committee last week was required to reallocate an estimated $ 140 million from the pentagon . and though the size of the loan guarantees approved yesterday is significant , recent experience with a similar program in central america indicates that it could take several years before the new polish government can fully use the aid effectively . the action on poland came as the conference separately approved $ 220 million for international population planning activities , an 11 % increase over fiscal 1989 . the house and senate are divided over whether the united nations population fund will receive any portion of these appropriations , but the size of the increase is itself significant . in a second area of common concern , the world environment , an additional $ 15 million will be provided in development assistance 0 to fund a series of initiatives , related both to global warming and the plight of the african elephant . the sweeping nature of the bill draws a variety of special interest amendments , running from an import exemption for a california airplane museum to a small but intriguing struggle among sugar producing nations over the fate of panama 's quota of exports to the profitable u.s. market . panama was stripped of this right because of u.s. differences with the noriega regime , but the central american country would have received a quota of 30,537 metric tons over a 21-month period ending sept. 30 , 1990 . about a quarter of this share has already been reallocated , according to the industry , but the remaining 23,403 tons are still a lucrative target for growers because the current u.s. price of 18 cents a pound runs as much as a nickel a pound above the world rate . the potential sales are nearly $ 9.3 million , and house majority whip william gray -lrb- d. , pa . -rrb- began the bidding this year by proposing language that the quota be allocated to english-speaking countries of the caribbean , such as jamaica and barbados . rep. jerry lewis , a conservative californian , added a provision of his own intended to assist bolivia , and the senate then broadened the list further by including all countries in the u.s. caribbean basin initiate as well as the philippines - backed by the powerful hawaii democrat sen. daniel inouye . jamaica , wary of upsetting its caribbean basin allies , has apparently instructed its lobbyist to abandon the provision initially drafted by mr. gray , but the greater question is whether mr. inouye , who has strong ties to the sugar industry , is able to insert a claim by the philippines . in separate floor action , the house waived budget restrictions and gave quick approval to $ 3.18 billion in supplemental appropriations for law enforcement and anti-drug programs in fiscal 1990 . the funding is attached to an estimated $ 27.1 billion transportation bill that goes next to the senate and carries with it a proposed permanent smoking ban on virtually all u.s. domestic airline flights . the leadership hopes to move the compromise measure promptly to the white house , but in recent days , the senate has been as likely to bounce bills back to the house . the most recent example was a nearly $ 17.3 billion fiscal 1990 bill funding the state , justice and commerce departments . and after losing a battle tuesday night with the senate foreign relations committee , appropriators from both houses are expected to be forced back to conference .