in august , soon after wang laboratories inc. reported a staggering $ 424.3 million loss and replaced its president , two boston sales representatives sent customers a letter saying : `` we fully expect that you will soon be reading stories in the press reporting the ` amazing comeback at wang . ' '' how soon wang will stage a comeback , or if it will at all , are still matters of debate . but wang salespeople are trying to cope with the biggest challenge 0 any marketer can face : selling the products of a company that is on the ropes . `` if your prospect is feeling risk the whole time and you 're not feeling as if you 're backed up by a stable company , you 've lost it before you 've begun , '' says mary ann cluggish , a wellesley , mass. , sales trainer and consultant who works with high technology companies . it can happen in any industry . consider the difficulties faced by audi salespeople when the car was tainted by false charges of sudden acceleration , or exxon dealers ' problems in the wake of the valdez oil spill . like thousands of salespeople before them , wang 's are finding ways 0 to combat the bad news . `` it 's very important that we exude confidence , even though within the family we know 0 there 's a lot of hard work ahead , '' said richard miller , the lowell , mass. , computer concern 's new president , in a video message to salespeople a month after he took over . wang got into financial trouble because of bloated overhead and overly optimistic sales forecasts . its mainline minicomputers and word processors have lost ground to cheaper personal computers . last year it funded its high employment by heavy borrowing , and it suffered huge losses when sales turned down instead of rising . after the company reported red ink for the fiscal third quarter , wang 's marketing department provided the sales force answers to questions such as `` how could you not have known 0 you were going to lose $ 55 million ? '' and `` is wang still a viable company ? '' salespeople try to push their products and avoid discussions of finances . responding to such questions is `` defensive , '' says kenneth olissa , wang 's vice president , marketing . `` that 's antithetical to the art of selling . '' moreover , he notes that analyzing financial results `` poses a problem for a salesman who is n't particularly familiar with a balance sheet . '' at one sales strategy meeting , an executive suggested ordering salespeople to become experts on the annual report . mr. miller vetoed that : `` even i ca n't understand all the footnotes , '' he says . instead , he says 0 , if the salespeople can get the customers to consider wang 's products on their merits , he or a top financial officer will try to assuage the fears about finances . mike metschan , a salesman in wang 's austin , texas , office , has a breezier method : `` we tell them 0 $ 3 billion companies do n't go out of business . we tell them 0 all the major companies are having financial difficulties . '' numerous computer companies are having sales slumps and earnings declines , but very few have had losses comparable to wang 's or are carrying such a large debt load . mr. miller says that after a sharp sales slump in july and august , sales stabilized in september . although wang will report a loss for the first quarter ended sept. 30 and the full fiscal year , mr. miller says 0 he expects 0 the company will return to profitability by the fourth quarter . experts on sales technique say 0 anyone representing a troubled company must walk a fine line . `` if a salesman jeopardizes his credibility in this time of trouble , it will be a problem for the long run , '' says george palmatier , a minden , nev. , sales consultant and author of `` the marketing edge . '' still , says john sullivan , a management recruiter with daniel roberts inc. of boston , who has held senior sales positions at polaroid and atari : `` the customer will react to strength . ignore the present condition . show 0 it 's business as usual . '' that is n't easy . wang 's customers are data processing managers who want to be sure that their suppliers are stable , wellrun companies that will be around to fix bugs and upgrade computers for years 0 to come . for buyers , `` these are career-risking decisions , '' says 0 jean conlin , who supervises a network of wang computers in the admissions department at boston university . the university is considering installing a $ 250,000 system 0 to store applications electronically . `` before the really bad news , we were looking at wang fairly seriously , '' she says . but `` their present financial condition means 0 i 'd have a hard time convincing the vice president in charge of purchasing . '' ms. conlin adds : `` at some point we 'd have to ask , ` how do we know that in three years you wo n't be in chapter 11 ? ' '' during the past year , wang has developed new products and a new strategy and hired a new president . wang 's overall product line is `` still not as good as other vendors , but they 've come a long way , '' says 0 steven wendler , a consultant with market researcher gartner group , stamford , conn . `` they were on the road to recovery in terms of customer attitudes until this bad quarter happened . '' the first priority for wang 's sales force is to make sure 0 it holds on to existing customers . wang 's installed base is one of its greatest assets , and many of those customers remain extremely loyal . but even before wang 's latest financial troubles surfaced , some customers `` were trying to wall off their wang installations '' so other departments would n't add wang , says 0 chris christiansen , a former wang marketer who is now a market analyst with meta group , a market research firm in stamford , conn . one wang salesman who left the company in july recalls that when he tried to sell products to eastman kodak , he worked `` to muster support from internal allies , '' but `` those allies became skeptical as they saw the downtrend . the more recent losses were really devastating . '' new customers , the source of higher commissions for salespeople and the key to wang 's long-term viability , are even tougher . rick lynch , a former top salesman in wang 's boston office , referring to wang 's mainstay computer line , says : `` you ca n't sell a vs to a new customer . '' mr. lynch left wang this summer for oracle systems inc. , a software vendor . the financial problems are particularly frustrating for salespeople pushing wang 's image systems , which convert paper forms to electronic documents . consultants say that wang 's technology is among the best available in the image market . but salespeople often found that news of wang 's problems superseded their sales efforts . william tait , a former sales manager in indianapolis , says that his office had all but sold a $ 1.5 million image system to pharmaceutical maker eli lilly & co . `` when they were making the decision , all hell broke loose with the finances . '' he says 0 the lilly executives told him 0 they could n't take the risk with wang . mr. tait say 0 he does n't blame lilly . buyers have to rely on a supplier `` continually upgrading and replacing the product , '' he says 0 . `` when a company realizes that , it 's hard to go with wang . '' for mr. tait , who says 0 he used to earn as much as $ 150,000 a year at wang , it was one more reason 0 to quit . he is now president of eastate homes inc. , an indianapolis contractor . it can be hard for a salesperson to fight off feelings of discouragement . brian petre , a former wang salesman in upstate new york , says : `` you have pride in your job . you think 0 you can go out and turn things around . it 's a tough thing when you ca n't . the reason does n't relate to your selling skills . '' discouragement feeds on itself . `` the problem is , if people get down in the dumps , they stop selling , '' says mike durcan , a laid-off sales manager in wang 's austin office . one key for salespeople is to boost their own morale . paul hellman , a framingham , mass. , sales and management consultant and author of `` ready , aim , you 're hired , '' says : `` the bad news is , you 'll be rejected more . the good news is , it 's not your fault . '' so , he advises 0 , make goals achievable . for instance , he suggests that salespeople making telephone calls should say to themselves : `` all 0 i want to do today is get 50 rejections . '' but mr. miller , wang 's new president , recently warned his salespeople about negativism . `` our customers watch us for the hidden message , '' he said . `` look a customer right in the eye and say , ` i 'm glad to be at wang .