about 400,000 commuters trying to find their way through the bay area 's quake-torn transportation system wedged cheek-to-jowl into subways , sat in traffic jams on major freeways or waited forlornly for buses yesterday . in other words , it was a better-than-average manhattan commute . city officials feared widespread gridlock on the first day that normal business operations were resumed following last tuesday 's earthquake . the massive temblor , which killed at least 61 people , severed the bay bridge , a major artery to the east , and closed most ramps leading to and from highway 101 , the biggest artery to the south . it will take several weeks to repair the bridge , and several months to repair some of the 101 connections . but in spite of a wind-driven rainstorm , gridlock never materialized , mainly because the bay area rapid transit subway system carried 50 % more passengers than normal . for the first time in memory , it was standing-room only in bart 's sleek , modern railcars . moreover , the two main bridges still connecting san francisco with the east bay did n't charge tolls , allowing traffic to zip through without stopping . officials also suspect that traffic benefited from steps by major employers 0 to get workers to come in at odd hours , or that many workers are still staying at home . many commuters who normally drove across the bay bridge , which is shut down for several weeks because of damage to one span , actually may have reached work a bit faster on bart yesterday , provided 0 they could find a parking space at the system 's jammed stations . in the best of times , the bay bridge is the worst commute in the region , often experiencing back-ups of 20 to 30 minutes or more . not that getting into town was easy . storm flooding caused back-ups on the freeway , and many commuters had to find rides to bart 's stations , because parking lots were full before dawn . bus schedules were sometimes in disarray , stranding commuters such as marilyn sullivan . her commute from petaluma , calif. , normally takes an hour and 15 minutes , via the golden gate bridge , which connects san francisco with the north bay area . yesterday , she was still waiting at a bus stop after three hours , trying to transfer to a bus going to the financial district . `` it 's worse than i thought , '' she said . `` i do n't know where all the buses are . '' but while traffic was heavy early in the commute over the golden gate , by 8 a.m. it already had thinned out . `` it 's one of the smoothest commutes 0 i 've ever had , '' said charles catania , an insurance broker on the bus from mill valley in marin county . `` it looks like a holiday . i think 0 a lot of people got scared and stayed home . '' however , a spokeswoman for bankamerica corp. said 0 yesterday 's absenteeism at the bank holding company was no greater than on an average day . at the san mateo bridge , which connects the san francisco peninsula with the east bay , police were surprised at the speed with which traffic moved . `` everybody pretty much pitched in and cooperated , '' said stan perez , a sergeant with the california highway patrol . there were many indications that the new work hours implemented by major corporations played a big role . the golden gate handled as many cars as normally yesterday , but over four hours rather than the usual two-hour crush . bechtel group inc. , the giant closely held engineering concern , says 0 it has instituted a 6 a.m. to 8 p.m. flextime arrangement , whereby employees may select any eight-hour period during those hours 0 to go to work . of bechtel 's 17,500 employees , about 4,000 work in san francisco -- one-third of them commuting from stricken east bay . pacific gas & electric co. is offering its 6,000 san francisco employees a two-tier flextime schedule -- either 6 a.m. to 2 p.m. or 10 a.m. to 6 p.m . the flextime may cut by almost a third the number of pg&e employees working conventional 9-5 hours , a spokesman says 0 . some of the utility 's employees may opt for a four-day workweek , 10 hours a day , to cut the commute by 20 % . at pacific telesis group , flextime is left up to individual working groups , because some of the telephone company 's employees must be on-site during normal business hours , a spokeswoman says 0 . some individuals went to some lengths on their own to avoid the anticipated gridlock . one senior vice president at bechtel said 0 he got up at 3 a.m. to drive into san francisco from the east bay . but transportation officials worry that such extraordinary measures and cooperation may not last . although one transportation official said 0 drivers who did n't use car pools were committing `` an anti-social act , '' about two-thirds of the motorists crossing the golden gate were alone , compared with the normal 70 % rate . and some commuters , relieved by the absence of gridlock , were planning to return to their old ways .