literally . traders nervously watching their quotron electronic-data machines yesterday morning were stunned to see the dow jones industrial average plummet 99 points in seconds . a minute later it soared 128 points , then zoomed back down 113 points , 69 below friday 's close . `` it was crazy , '' said neil weisman , general partner of chilmark capital corp . `` it was like flying without a pilot in the front of the plane . '' but those who said `` this ca n't be happening '' were right . the quotrons were wrong . quotron systems inc. , a citicorp unit , blamed the 30-minute foul-up on `` a timing problem in our software '' caused by the enormous early volume -- about 145 million shares in the first hour of new york stock exchange trading . the prices of the individual stocks that make up the average were correct , quotron said 0 , but the average was wrong . meanwhile , there was an awful lot of confusion . at about 10:40 a.m. on the over-the-counter trading desk at a major brokerage firm , a veteran trader who buys and sells some of the most active stocks looked at a senior official and asked , `` what 's going on ? is the market up or down ? '' at the time , quotron was reporting that the industrial average was down 70 points . in fact , it was up 24 . holly stark , a vice president who heads the trading desk at dillon read capital corp. , said that once she figured out 0 the quotron numbers were wrong , she called brokers to tell them . `` it 's been kind of annoying , to say the least , '' she said . to confuse matters further , when ual corp. stock finally opened on the new york stock exchange at 11:08 a.m. , the price was listed at $ 324.75 a share , up about $ 45 from friday ; in fact , its true price was $ 224.75 , down $ 55 . that was the new york stock exchange 's blooper . a spokesman cited a `` technical error '' and declined to elaborate . and there were other blunders . when the market opened at 9:30 a.m. est , a reporter for the reuters newswire miscalculated the industrial average 's drop as a 4 % decline when it really was down 0.7 % . `` it was a case of human error , which we found almost immediately and corrected , '' a spokesman for reuter in new york said . meanwhile , some currency traders at west german banks in frankfurt said 0 they sold dollars on the news and had to buy them back later at higher prices . but it was the quotron problems that had lingering effects . dillon read 's ms. stark said in early afternoon that she was still viewing prices and other data as subject to verification , and she said 0 portfolio managers continued to question the numbers 0 they saw on the screen . it was the second time in less than a week that quotron has had problems calculating the industrial average . at the start of trading last wednesday , the average appeared to plunge more than 200 points . actually , it was down only a few points at the time . quotron said 0 that snafu , which lasted nine minutes , resulted from a failure to adjust for a 4-for-1 stock split at philip morris cos . a quotron spokeswoman said 0 recent software changes may have contributed to yesterday 's problems . she said 0 quotron switched to a backup system until the problems were corrected . `` today of all days , '' she lamented . `` the eyes of the world were watching us .