the pentagon is a haunted house . living there for six years was really scary . the ghosts of the past are everywhere : they are kept at bay only by feeding them vast quantities of our defense budget . some can be bought off relatively cheaply . during the korean war , gen. douglas macarthur demanded and got , in addition to his u.n. command in korea , his own naval command in japan , navforjapan . those obsolete operations cost less than $ 2 billion a year , and keep mac 's ghost quiet . that 's about all 0 it costs to appease adm. erich raeder 's ghost . in 1941 , raeder and the german navy threatened to attack the panama canal , so we created the southern command in panama . the southern command has grown even bigger since the war because raeder 's ghost sometimes runs through the e ring dressed like gen. noriega . the command 's huge bureaucracy is needed to analyze whether leaders of coups against gen. noriega meet the war powers act 's six points , cap weinberger 's seven points , the intelligence committee 's 32 points and woodrow wilson 's 14 points necessary to justify u.s. support . so far no one has . the ghost of the soviet brigade discovered in cuba back in the '70s costs just a few hundred million : the price of the caribbean command in key west that president carter created in 1980 . the brigade has n't been heard from since , but we keep the staff around just in case . george marshall 's ghost is much more difficult to keep happy . we keep a lot of shrines to him around the pentagon : statues , busts , relics and such . the army headquarters on the third deck of the pentagon used to burn a lot of incense to him , but the navy headquarters on the fourth deck made them stop it . you see , marshall had this thing about the navy and the marines -- he wanted to make them part of the army but secretary of the navy james forrestal blocked him . now his ghost wo n't let up till it 's done . to keep him quiet we invent a new unified command every year or so run by the army or the air force and put more of the navy and marines under it . but we still hear him moaning at night because the navy has a few ships left , and to satisfy him the navy 's sea lift forces were given to a new air force bureaucracy in illinois , its space operations to another command in colorado , the frogmen to a new army bureaucracy in fort bragg , and the navy 's indian ocean and persian gulf forces to an army bureaucracy in florida . which brings up the worst and meanest ghost of all -- the ghost of the shah of iran . when the shah died , president carter was so scared that the shah 's ghost would blame him for shoving him out to make way for the ayatollah that he declared the carter doctrine . mr. carter said 0 he would go to war to stop anyone from trying to grab iran . but that ghost would n't settle for words , he wanted money and people -- lots . so mr. carter formed three new army divisions and gave them to a new bureaucracy in tampa called the rapid deployment force . but that ghost was n't fooled ; he knew 0 the rdf was neither rapid nor deployable nor a force -- even though it cost $ 8 billion or $ 10 billion a year . after mr. carter was defeated in 1980 , the shah 's ghost claimed the credit and then went after president reagan and cap weinberger . i saw what he did to them firsthand . it made my shoelaces dance with terror . why , he used to lay in wait for cap ; suddenly he 'd leap from behind some statue of marshall onto cap 's chest and grab him by the throat and choke him till he coughed up an additional $ 2 billion or so . cap added four more divisions to the army , two active and two reserve ; two carrier groups to the navy ; a division -- equivalent to the marines ; and the c-5b , kc-10 , c-17 and a thousand tactical aircraft to the air force . he bought $ 4 billion in prepositioning ships and $ 7 billion in ammo and equipment 0 to fill them , and parked them at a new $ 6 billion base at diego garcia in the middle of the indian ocean . he dedicated all these new forces to the persian gulf . one night both marshall 's ghost and the shah 's ghost together caught cap and threw him to the ground . before they let him go he added a thousand bureaucrats to the rdf in tampa and renamed it central command . he gave those bureaucrats charge of all naval operations in the persian gulf and indian ocean . marshall figured 0 it would be good training for those soldiers -- someday maybe they would get the whole navy . they had fun moving the carriers around , but it turned out that they had forgotten all about mine sweepers . but the shah still kept leaping out at cap , so cap bought a hundred merchant ships more and $ 7 billion of loading barges , ramps , etc. , in order that those seven new army divisions and three marine brigades could unload from all those new ships and aircraft and go to war in the zagros mountains . then suddenly ike 's ghost came to visit and said , `` what the hell are you doing planning for a land war in asia 12,000 miles away ? we 'd get our asses kicked . '' lucky for cap , ike was easygoing and soon went away , while the shah -- he kept coming back . so the u.s. found itself paying about $ 2 billion in baksheesh to various arab potentates for basing rights around the indian ocean . we had great success in somalia . but then it turned out that president siad barrah was not at all a nice person and the navy pointed out that the base 0 he promised us in berbera had silted up about a hundred years ago and anyway was 1,244 miles from the mouth of the gulf . -lrb- but who 's counting . -rrb- still , berbera was the best 0 we could get , so we stay in bed with president barrah . all these reports about him committing genocide are probably exaggerated anyway . but would n't you know , now that we are spending jillions of dollars , and have built those new divisions and new air wings , and have positioned all these ships and supplies to fight the russians in iran , the russians seem to have lost interest in the whole subject . meanwhile , congress is cutting huge chunks out of the rest of the defense budget . predictably , some navy guys said : `` do we still need to keep all 18 army divisions on active duty and all those extra land-based aircraft without bases and all those army guys playing admiral in tampa ? could n't we save $ 20 billion or $ 30 billion a year by shifting that stuff to the reserves ? and why not save the costs of a thousand bureaucrats by abolishing central command and putting responsibility for gulf naval operations back where it belongs , afloat with the task force commander in the gulf ? and where were all our handsomely paid indian ocean allies last year when our convoys were being attacked ? '' questions like that really stir up marshall 's ghost . he appeared late one night in the bedroom of the new defense secretary , dick cheney . marshall came clanking in like marley 's ghost dragging those chains of brigades and air wings and links with arab despots . he would n't leave until mr. cheney promised to do whatever the pentagon systems analysts told him . so next day mr. cheney went out and did just that : he canceled the 600-ship navy and cut back one carrier and 20 frigates . then he canceled production of the navy 's most important carrier aircraft , the f-14 and the a-6 . on the other hand , mr. cheney retained all those new land forces . marshall 's ghost is satisfied for now , but he 'll be back . what with halloween coming and bigger defense cuts looming , more and more pentagon bureaucrats are crawling under their desks . they know that they can hold off the ghosts only a little while longer by cutting carriers and ships . then the whole thing will start to collapse , just as it did in the 1970s , and the ghosts and banshees will be howling through the place turning people 's hair white . gives me the willies just thinking about it . mr. lehman , a reagan navy secretary , is a managing director of painewebber .