former usx corp. chairman david m. roderick may have been lucky 0 he retired last may . as he handed over the reins to successor charles a. corry , steel profits were close to a cyclical peak . though imports were troublesome , they were n't running away with the market , and american companies had high hopes that steel import quotas would be extended for another five years . perhaps most important , carl icahn , who had once threatened a hostile takeover bid , was subdued . he and mr. roderick were even dining out together . today , mr. corry presides over a company whose fortunes have changed abruptly . mr. icahn , the company 's deep-pocketed , tenacious adversary , recently disclosed that he had raised his usx stake to 13.1 % , and he again threatened a takeover . a battle with mr. icahn would rattle even the most seasoned chief executive , to say nothing of one who took the helm less than five months ago . in addition , usx 's giant steel segment , representing 34 % of its 1988 sales , is facing softening demand and slipping prices as well as increasing competition from foreign steelmakers and low-cost minimills . the import quotas got only a 2 1\/2-year extension , and usx is laboring under a staggering $ 5.8 billion debt at a time when it must spend money to upgrade steel mills and drill for oil . `` it 's a baptism of fire for corry , '' says one usx executive . the burning question is whether the new chief can parry mr. icahn without being pushed into unwelcome moves . mr. corry might have to dismember the company more than he wants to . or he might have to incur a huge expense of either buying mr. icahn 's stock , possibly at a premium , or paying stockholders a special dividend partly because of mr. icahn 's pressure . with his recent purchases of usx common stock , mr. icahn shattered a three-year-old , unwritten standstill agreement with mr. roderick . in 1986 , mr. roderick adroitly dodged mr. icahn 's first bullet after the takeover specialist had built up an 11.4 % stake . mr. roderick did so by having usx redeem a series of guaranteed notes , a move that , in effect , raised the cost of a $ 7.19 billion icahn bid by about $ 3 billion . and he managed to fend off further advances and even strike up an unlikely friendship with the interloper . over dinners at new york 's sky club and links club restaurants , the steel executive and the big investor talked steel , international trade and thoroughbred horses . mr. corry , who has boned up on corporate raiders by reading t. boone pickens 's autobiography , had hoped 0 the detente would continue . he was shocked , associates say 0 , to learn of mr. icahn 's new takeover threat . -lrb- both men declined to be interviewed for this article . -rrb- but the fiercely competitive mr. corry quickly showed 0 he 's no pushover . he huddled with directors at a special meeting two weeks ago and tried to block his opponent . although the board believed that mr. icahn is more interested in talking the stock price higher than acquiring usx , it adopted a poison-pill defense , 0 to be swallowed if anyone amasses a 15 % stake . now , it 's mr. icahn 's move . will he try to gain a seat on or control of the board and force a radical split of usx into separate oil and steel companies ? given the weakness of the junk-bond market , can he finance a buy-out ? mr. icahn may not want to sell out unless he can get a special dividend similar to one 0 he received before selling his stake in texaco inc. in june -- a coup that gave him enough cash 0 to make his usx move . and although the recent turmoil in the stock and junk-bond markets , by making it harder to arrange takeover financing , has eased some of the pressure on mr. corry , it does n't end the takeover threat . `` i know 0 it 's not over , '' a sober-faced mr. corry acknowledged while greeting steel suppliers in new york on oct. 12 and inviting them to a buffet of salmon and sushi in honor of kobe steel ltd. , usx 's partner in a steel mill in lorain , ohio . in fact , it 's barely begun for mr. corry , who faces tough decisions before he has had a chance to get settled into his new job . `` he 's in a vulnerable position because he has n't established much credibility on his own , '' says bryan jacoboski , a securities analyst at painewebber inc . the 57-year-old tax attorney never even aspired to the job of chief executive . an undistinguished college student who dabbled in zoology until he concluded that he could n't stand cutting up frogs , mr. corry wanted to work for a big company `` that could do big things . '' but after joining the tax department of a usx subsidiary 30 years ago , he set the modest goal of becoming tax manager by the age of 46 . for years , he quietly stuck to the back accounting rooms , wearing a hat to work because everyone else did . `` i was never a rebel , '' he said in an earlier interview . `` i do n't think 0 most of the people that have been around me would ever say 0 they 've seen me pound the table or get angry . '' yet , the unassuming mr. corry helped chart usx 's transition from big steel to big oil . he served as mr. roderick 's front man in tense negotiations for the 1982 purchase of marathon oil for $ 5.9 billion . nevertheless , mr. corry , once named chief executive , did n't waste any time distancing himself from his former boss , who still has an office on the 62nd floor of the usx tower in pittsburgh . soon after taking over last june , mr. corry rescinded a pay cut imposed on clerical workers , a move that mr. roderick had n't made in spite of improved earnings . mr. corry also ruled that all board meetings would be held in pittsburgh instead of new york or findlay , ohio , marathon 's home . and , earlier this month , he announced the sale of the reserves of texas oil & gas , which was acquired three years ago and has n't posted any significant operating profits since . one former executive says , `` nobody wanted that deal inside usx except dave roderick , '' who was a hunting and fishing buddy of william l. hutchison , chairman of texas oil & gas . the executive recalls mr. corry whispering to him and others , `` remember , this was dave 's deal . '' what miffed many usx executives and shareholders was that the acquisition , for $ 3 billion of stock , doubled the usx shares outstanding and considerably diluted them . what 's more , the takeover occurred as natural-gas prices were falling and just as texas oil & gas reported its first annual loss in 28 years . mr. corry expected the texas oil & gas sale to delight mr. icahn by addressing his concern about boosting shareholder value . but when the two men met in new york a day after mr. icahn disclosed the rise in his usx stake , mr. corry learned that mr. icahn wanted him to sell all of texas oil -- not just its reserves of about 1.2 trillion cubic feet of natural gas and 28 million barrels of oil but also its pipeline , gas-gathering and contract-drilling operations . that would leave usx with marathon , its steel mills and its diversified business segment , which includes , among other things , mineral and transportation products . some speculate that mr. corry would agree if he could find a buyer at the right price . the problem is that mr. icahn is pushing him to move faster and further in restructuring usx than mr. corry had planned . mr. icahn has long believed , associates say 0 , that the company , whose 1988 sales totaled $ 16.88 billion , is worth $ 70 a share if broken up . the stock closed yesterday at $ 33.625 , giving mr. icahn 's 33.6 million shares a value of $ 1.13 billion . mr. icahn advocates the sale of the company 's steel operations , and mr. corry does n't necessarily disagree . unlike his predecessor , who saw steel as america 's backbone , mr. corry tends to view it as a capital-draining and labor-intensive business with limited potential , associates say 0 . in the past five years , usx has turned steel into a profit maker by closing several plants and reducing labor costs . but the short-term outlook is so-so . it is n't surprising that messrs. roderick and corry view steel so differently . while mr. roderick was reared in the shadows of pittsburgh 's smoking mills , mr. corry grew up in cincinnati , a city nicknamed `` porkapolis '' and more accustomed to pork chops than pig iron . he has never met lynn williams , the president of the united steelworkers union , and is n't active in the industry 's main trade group , the american iron and steel institute , which mr. roderick served as chairman . `` dave thought 0 the country needed a strong u.s. steel and , while chuck agreed , he was more apt to say , ` not at any cost to shareholders , ' '' a former executive says . indeed , mr. corry , at an august press conference , talked about investing in steel as long as it provides a good return and `` not a day longer . '' however , shedding steel would run directly counter to mr. roderick 's original rationale for diversifying into oil and gas : having two major products would lessen the company 's vulnerability to one market 's down cycle and help smooth out the flow of cash and earnings . as mr. roderick once said : `` we 're a two-product company and , boy , if you ca n't figure out the value of those two parts , you are so damn dumb that you do n't belong on wall street . '' moreover , the opportunity to sell steel at a price acceptable to usx may be gone , for now . `` the time has passed 0 for us to spin off steel , '' either in a public offering or to a buyer , one executive contends 0 . about the only way 0 that usx now can get out of steel is to dish it out , piece by piece , in separate joint ventures , he adds 0 . with mr. icahn breathing down his neck , however , mr. corry may have little choice but to sell at a weak price , even if it means losing some steel-related tax-loss carryforwards . that would leave usx essentially an oil company with marathon as its core . marathon has benefited from higher crude-oil prices and strong demand for refined products . oil has long been mr. corry 's pet . indeed , when the bush administration finally decided this summer to renew import restrictions -- arguably the most important decision 0 to affect the steel industry in five years -- mr. corry and his directors were aboard helicopters , high above marathon 's rich oil reserves in the north sea . should usx be left with only marathon , mr. corry might well feel pushed to scout out other energy companies . however , even usx executives who work closely with him are n't sure about his long-term goals . `` i do n't think 0 he has a clear sense of where he wants the company to go , '' one says . right now , the executive adds 0 , `` he wants to continue to focus on paying down '' usx 's debt by selling assets . one thing is certain , however : mr. corry , while studying other options , probably wo n't make a major move until he 's clear about mr. icahn 's intentions . and then , `` he wo n't panic , '' says 0 j. bruce johnston , a former usx executive and now a labor and benefit consultant with adler cohen & grigsby in pittsburgh . mr. corry learned presence under fire when , as vice president of corporate planning , he handled what mr. johnston calls `` don't-con-me '' negotiations that led to usx 's shedding of a wide array of assets ranging from chemicals to construction . when negotiating , mr. corry played his cards close to the vest . johnnie johnson , who worked for mr. corry in strategic planning , recalls how his boss would routinely ask a subordinate to research an entire industry to target acquisition candidates . `` what he really wanted to know was about a particular company , but you did n't know that . he wanted your own unbiased , virgin opinion , '' says mr. johnson , now managing director at georgeson & co. , a proxy-solicitation and investor-relations firm . ever the pragmatist , mr. corry said in august that he realized that usx is on `` acquisition screens all over the country . '' `` it 's part of the capitalistic market system that equity can be bought and equity is bought , '' he said . usx , he noted 0 , was formed 88 years ago , `` by in effect buying out a bunch of other companies ... . people got rich through takeovers in those days , as they do today . '' thomas f. o'boyle contributed to this article .