for 10 years , genie driskill went to her neighborhood bank because it was convenient . a high-balance customer that banks pine for , she did n't give much thought to the rates 0 she was receiving , nor to the fees 0 she was paying . but in august , first atlanta national bank introduced its crown account , a package designed to lure customers such as ms. driskill . among other things , it included checking , safe deposit box and credit card -- all for free -- plus a good deal on installment loans . all 0 she had to do was put $ 15,000 in a certificate of deposit , or qualify for a $ 10,000 personal line of credit . `` i deserve something for my loyalty , '' she says . she took her business to first atlanta . so it goes in the competitive world of consumer banking these days . for nearly a decade , banks have competed for customers primarily with the interest rates 0 they pay on their deposits and charge on their loans . the competitive rates were generally offset by hefty fees on various services . but many banks are turning away from strict price competition . instead , they are trying to build customer loyalty by bundling their services into packages and targeting them to small segments of the population . `` you 're dead in the water if you are n't segmenting the market , '' says anne moore , president of synergistics research corp. , a bank consulting firm in atlanta . ncnb corp. of charlotte , n.c. , recently introduced its financial connections program aimed at young adults just starting careers . the program not only offers a pre-approved car loan up to $ 18,000 , but throws in a special cash-flow statement 0 to help in saving money . in september , union planters corp. of memphis , tenn. , launched the edge account , a package designed for the `` thirtysomething '' crowd with services that include a credit card and line of credit with no annual fees , and a full percentage point off on installment loans . the theory : such individuals , many with young children , are in their prime borrowing years -- and , having borrowed from the bank , they may continue to use it for other services in later years . for some time , banks have been aiming packages at the elderly , the demographic segment with the highest savings . those efforts are being stepped up . judie macdonald , vice president of retail sales at barnett banks inc. of jacksonville , fla. , says 0 the company now targets sub-segments within the market by tailoring its popular seniors partners program to various life styles . `` varying age , geography and life-style differences create numerous sub-markets , '' ms. macdonald says . she says 0 individual barnett branches can add different benefits to their seniors partners package -- such as athletic activities or travel clubs -- to appeal to local market interests . `` an active 55-year-old in boca raton may care more about senior olympic games , while a 75-year-old in panama city may care more about a seminar on health , '' she says . banks have tried packaging before . in 1973 , wells fargo & co. of san francisco launched the gold account , which included free checking , a credit card , safe-deposit box and travelers checks for a $ 3 monthly fee . the concept begot a slew of copycats , but the banks stopped promoting the packages . one big reason : thin margins . many banks , particularly smaller ones , were slow to computerize and could n't target market niches that would have made the programs more profitable . as banks ' earnings were squeezed in the mid-1970s , the emphasis switched to finding ways 0 to cut costs . but now computers are enabling more banks to analyze their customers by age , income and geography . they are better able to get to those segments in the wake of the deregulation that began in the late 1970s . deregulation has effectively removed all restrictions on what banks can pay for deposits , as well as opened up the field for new products such as high-rate cds . where a bank once offered a standard passbook savings account , it began offering money-market accounts , certificates of deposit and interest-bearing checking , and staggering rates based on the size of deposits . the competition has grown more intense as bigger banks such as norwest corp. of minneapolis and chemical banking corp. of new york extend their market-share battles into small towns across the nation . `` today , a banker is worrying about local , regional and money-center -lcb- banks -rcb- , as well as thrifts and credit unions , '' says ms. moore at synergistics research . `` so people who were n't even thinking about targeting 10 years ago are scrambling to define their customer base . '' the competition has cultivated a much savvier consumer . `` the average household will spread 19 accounts over a dozen financial institutions , '' says michael p. sullivan , who runs his own bank consulting firm in charlotte , n.c . `` this much fragmentation makes attracting and keeping today 's rate-sensitive customers costly . '' packages encourage loyalty by rewarding customers for doing the bulk of their banking in one place . for their troubles , the banks get a larger captive audience that is less likely to move at the drop of a rate . the more accounts 0 customers have , mr. sullivan says 0 , the more likely they are to be attracted to a package -- and to be loyal to the bank that offers it . that can pay off down the road as customers , especially the younger ones , change from borrowers to savers\/investors . packaging has some drawbacks . the additional technology , personnel training and promotional effort can be expensive . chemical bank spent more than $ 50 million to introduce its chemplus line , several packages aimed at different segments , in 1986 , according to thomas jacob , senior vice president of marketing . `` it 's not easy to roll out something that comprehensive , and make it pay , '' mr. jacob says . still , bankers expect packaging to flourish , primarily because more customers are demanding that financial services be tailored to their needs . `` these days , banking customers walk in the door expecting you to have a package especially for them , '' ms. moore says . some banks are already moving in that direction , according to alvin t. sale , marketing director at first union corp. in charlotte . first union , he says 0 , now has packages for seven customer groups . soon , it will split those into 30 . says mr. sale : `` i think 0 more banks are starting to realize that we have to be more like the department store , not the boutique . '' iras .