although his team lost the world series , san francisco giants owner bob lurie hopes to have a new home for them . he is an avid fan of a proposition on next week 's ballot 0 to help build a replacement for candlestick park . small wonder , since he 's asking san francisco taxpayers to sink up to $ 100 million into the new stadium . as san francisco digs out from the pretty big one , opponents say 0 the last thing 0 the city can afford is an expensive new stadium . a stadium craze is sweeping the country . it 's fueled by the increasing profitability of major-league teams . something like one-third of the nation 's 60 largest cities are thinking about new stadiums , ranging from cleveland to san antonio and st. petersburg . most boosters claim 0 the new sports complexes will be moneymakers for their city . pepperdine university economist dean baim scoffs at that . he has looked at 14 baseball and football stadiums and found that only one -- private dodger stadium -- brought more money into a city than it took out . stadiums tend to redistribute existing wealth within a community , not create more of it . voters generally agree when they are given a chance to decide if they want to sink their own tax dollars into a new mega-stadium . san francisco voters rejected a new ballpark two years ago . last month , phoenix voters turned thumbs down on a $ 100 million stadium bond and tax proposition . its backers fielded every important interest on their team -- a popular mayor , the chamber of commerce , the major media -- and spent $ 100,000 on promotion . but voters decided that if the stadium was such a good idea someone would build it himself , and rejected it 59 % to 41 % . in san francisco , its backers concede 0 the ballpark is at best running even in the polls . george christopher , the former san francisco mayor who built candlestick park for the giants in the 1960s , wo n't endorse the new ballpark . he says 0 he had candlestick built because the giants claimed 0 they needed 10,000 parking spaces . since the new park will have only 1,500 spaces , mr. christopher thinks 0 backers are playing some fiscal `` games '' of their own with the voters . stadium boosters claim that without public money they would never be built . miami dolphins owner joe robbie disagrees , and he can prove it . several years ago he gave up trying to persuade miami to improve its city-owned orange bowl , and instead built his own $ 100 million coliseum with private funds . he did n't see why the taxpayers should help build something 0 he would then use to turn a healthy profit . `` this stadium shows that anything 0 government can do , we can do better , '' mr. robbie says . but to moon landrieu , the former new orleans mayor who helped build that city 's cavernous , money-losing superdome , questions of who benefits or the bottom line are of little relevance . `` the superdome is an exercise in optimism , a statement of faith , '' he has said . `` it is the very building of it that is important , not how much of it is used or its economics . '' an egyptian pharaoh could n't have justified his pyramids any better . but civilization has moved forward since then . today taxpayers get to vote , most of the time , on whether they want to finance the building schemes of our modern political pharaohs , or let private money erect these playgrounds for public passions .