among the catfish farmers in the watery delta land of humphreys county , miss. , allen d. tharp of isola was one of the best known and most enterprising . he sold quarter-inch fingerlings 0 to stock other farmers ' ponds , and he bought back one-pound-or-so food-fish that he `` live-hauled '' to market along with his own whiskery crop . and he nearly always bought and sold for cash . along the way , mr. tharp omitted a total of $ 1.5 million from his receipts reported on federal tax returns for three years . the returns landed in the hands of an internal revenue service criminal investigator , samuel james baker . mr. baker interviewed or wrote to hundreds of catfish farmers , live-haulers and processors throughout the south before coming up with detailed estimates of purchases and sales , in pounds and dollars , by mr. tharp and others . unknown to mr. tharp , he had fouled his net on a special irs project 0 to catch catfish farmers and haulers inclined to cheat on their taxes . confronted with the evidence , mr. tharp pleaded guilty to one charge of filing a false return and was fined $ 5,000 and sentenced to 18 months in prison . he also owes a lot of back taxes , interest and civil fraud penalties . a lot of taxpayers out there are n't as paranoid as one might think 0 . federal and state tax enforcers develop many group targets for investigation , on the basis of occupation , high income , type of income , or some other characteristic that may signal an opportunity or tendency to hide income or exaggerate deductions . many professions long have seemed to be targets because of the exotic or ludicrous efforts of some members to offset high income with fake losses from phony tax shelters : dentists who invested in dubiously dubbed foreign films or airline pilots who raised racehorses on their days off . mail-order ministers have been squelched . now , television and radio evangelists are under scrutiny . the irs recently won part of its long-running battle with the church of scientology over exemptions when the u.s. supreme court held that members ' payments to the church were n't deductible because the members received services in return . irs statistics show that the more persistent hiders of income among sole proprietors of businesses include used-car dealers , entertainment producers , masons , roofers , and taxi owners . small businesses in general account for almost 40 % of unreported personal income , the irs has said 0 . once such abuses become so pervasive , the irs builds another factor into its secret computer formula for selecting returns for audit and does n't need special projects for them . san franciscans have a much higher incidence of audits than average because more of them score high under that formula , not because irs agents envy their life styles . many openings for mass cheating , such as questionable tax shelters and home offices , have gaped so broadly that congress has passed stringent laws to close them . deductions of charitable gifts of highly valued art now must be accompanied by appraisals . and laws requiring the reporting of more varieties of transactions have enabled the irs to rely on computers to ferret out discrepancies with returns and to generate form-letter inquiries to taxpayers . unreported alimony income can be spotted by computer because a payer of alimony -lrb- who gets a deduction -rrb- must report the former spouse 's social security number . passport applicants now must give social security numbers , enabling the irs to see whether americans living abroad are filing required u.s. returns . but while irs computers focus routinely on target groups like these , the agency has assigned many agents to special projects that need more personal attention . in most cases , the irs says 0 , these projects are local or regional , rather than national , and arise because auditors in an area detect some pattern of abuse among , say , factory workers claiming that having a multitude of dependents frees them from tax withholding or yacht owners deducting losses from sideline charter businesses . the national office currently has 21 noncriminal audit projects , according to marshall v. washburn , deputy assistant commissioner for examination . auditors involved in noncriminal projects ca n't send anyone to jail , but they can make life miserable in other ways -- for one , by imposing some of the 150 different civil penalties for negligence , failure to file a return , and the like . the targeted audit groups include direct sellers -- people who sell cosmetics , housewares and other items door to door or at home parties -- and employers who label workers as independent contractors instead of employees , to avoid the employer share of payroll taxes . other projects look for offenders among waiters who get cash tips , people who engage in large cash transactions , and people whose returns show 0 they sold a home for a profit without reinvesting the capital gain in another home by the end of the same year ; the gain must be rolled over within two years to defer tax . and now that returns must show dependents ' social security numbers , the irs wants to see which dependents show up on more than one return -- and which dependents turn out to be deceased . impetus for the direct-seller project came from a congressional hearing some years back . it prompted an irs study that found 0 many sellers were concealing income and treating large amounts of nondeductible travel and other personal expenses as business costs , mr. washburn says 0 . the study provided criteria for singling out returns of `` potentially noncompliant '' taxpayers who report low income and large expenses from a part-time business . the tax court recently denied business deductions by mr. and mrs. peter s. rubin of cherry hill , n.j. , who both were part-time distributors of amway products in addition to their regular jobs as sales people in other fields . for 1984 , they reported gross income of $ 1,647 from amway sales , offset by expenses totaling $ 16,746 -- including car costs of $ 6,805 and travel and entertainment costs of $ 5,088 . the tax court did n't believe that the rubins , who earned $ 65,619 in their regular jobs , treated the sideline as a real business and derived `` merely incidental elements of recreation and other personal pleasure and benefits '' from it . the direct selling association , a trade group , points out that its members , which include amway corp. , cooperate with the irs to distribute tax-compliance material to sales people and are helping to prepare a public-service television program on the subject . the independent-contractor project , which began in 1988 , involves about 350 irs agents . in the fiscal nine months ended june 30 , reports 0 raymond p. keenan , assistant commissioner for collection , they examined about 13,000 employers , assessed more than $ 67 million in delinquent employment taxes , and reclassified about 56,000 workers as employees instead of self-employed contractors . the number of misclassified workers may be in the millions , mostly paid by small firms . many workers , especially professionals , want to remain independent to avoid tax withholding and to continue to deduct many expenses that employees ca n't . but many others , who want to qualify for employee benefits and unemployment compensation , become tipsters for the irs , says 0 jerry lackey , who manages the irs project 's force of nine agents in north and central florida from orlando . firms that are paying employment taxes also provide leads to competitors that are n't , he says 0 . in his area , mr. lackey continues 0 , the miscreant employers most commonly are in construction -- doing framing , drywall , masonry and similar work . but a medical clinic with about 20 employees wrongly listed all of them -- including physicians and receptionists -- as independent contractors . the irs assessed the clinic $ 350,000 in back payroll taxes . it assessed nearly $ 500,000 against a cruise-ship company that carried about 100 deckhands , cooks , bartenders , entertainers and other employees as self-employed independents . revenue-short states also are becoming more aggressive pursuers of tax delinquents , and perhaps none tracks them down with more relish than does new york since it acquired an $ 80 million computer system in 1985 . the state 's tax enforcers have amassed data bases from other new york agencies that license or register professionals and businesses ; from exchange agreements with the irs , 24 other states , and two canadian provinces , and even from phonebook yellow pages . thus armed for massive matching of documents by computer , they single out high-income groups , looking primarily for people who have n't filed new york income-tax returns . the state has combed through records relating to architects , stockbrokers , lawyers in the new york city area , construction workers from out of the state , and homeowners who claim to be residents of other states -- especially florida , which has no personal income tax . soon to feel the glare of attention are lawyers elsewhere in the state , doctors , dentists , and accountants , says frederick g. hicks , director of the tax-department division that develops the computer-matching programs . the department has collected over $ 6.5 million from brokers so far and recommended more than 30 of them for criminal prosecution . in the early stage of checking people with incomes exceeding $ 500,000 who were filing nonresident returns , it squeezed $ 7.5 million out of a man who was posing as a florida resident . `` we think 0 we can reclaim hundreds of millions of dollars just through the nonresident project , '' mr. hicks declares . mr. schmedel is editor of the wall street journal 's tax report column .