the crowded field for notebook-sized computers is about to become a lot more crowded . compaq computer corp. 's long-awaited entry today into the notebook field is expected to put immediate heat on others in the market , especially zenith electronics corp. , the current market leader , and on a swarm of promising start-ups . compaq 's series of notebooks extends a trend toward downsizing in the personal computer market . one manufacturer already has produced a clipboard-sized computer called a notepad , and two others have introduced even smaller `` palmtops . '' but those machines are still considered novelties , with keyboards 0 only a munchkin could love and screens 0 to match . compaq 's notebooks , by contrast , may be the first in their weight class not to skimp on features found in much bigger machines . analysts say 0 they 're faster and carry more memory than anything else of their size on the market -- and they 're priced aggressively at $ 2,400 to $ 5,000 . all of this comes in a machine that weighs only six pounds and fits comfortably into most briefcases . in recent months , compaq 's competition , including zenith , toshiba corp. , tandy corp. and nec corp. all have introduced portables that weigh approximately the same and that are called notebooks -- perhaps misleadingly . one analyst , noting that most such machines are about two inches thick , takes exception to the name . `` this is n't quite a notebook -- i call it a phonebook , '' he says . that ca n't be said of the $ 2,400 notepad computer introduced a few weeks ago by grid systems corp. , a unit of tandy . instead of a keyboard , it features a writing surface , an electronic pen and the ability to `` read '' block printing . at 4 1\/2 pounds , it may be too ambitiously named , but it nevertheless opens up the kind of marketing possibilities that make analysts froth . palmtops are n't far behind . atari corp. 's portfolio , introduced in europe two months ago and in the u.s. in early september , weighs less than a pound , costs a mere $ 400 and runs on three aa batteries , yet has the power to run some spreadsheets and word processing programs . some critics , however , say its ability to run commonplace programs is restricted by a limited memory . poquet computer corp. , meanwhile , has introduced a much more sophisticated palmtop that can run lotus 1-2-3 and other sophisticated software programs , but costs five times as much . at stake is what mike swavely , compaq 's president of north america operations , calls `` the holy grail of the computer industry '' -- the search for `` a real computer in a package so small 0 you can take it everywhere . '' the market is so new , 0 nobody knows yet how big it can be . `` i 've had a lot of people trying to sell me services 0 to find out how big it is , '' says tom humphries , director of marketing for grid . `` whether it 's $ 5 billion or $ 3.5 billion , it does n't matter . it 's huge . '' consider the growth of portables , which now comprise 12 % of all personal computer sales . laptops -- generally anything under 15 pounds -- have become the fastest-growing personal computer segment , with sales doubling this year . responding to that demand , however , has led to a variety of compromises . making computers smaller often means sacrificing memory . it also has precluded use of the faster , more powerful microprocessors found in increasing numbers of desktop machines . size and weight considerations also have limited screen displays . the competitive sniping can get pretty petty at times . a poquet spokesman , for example , criticizes the atari portfolio because it requires three batteries while the poquet needs only two . both palmtops are dismissed by notebook makers , who argue that they 're too small -- a problem 0 poquet also encountered in focus groups , admits 0 gerry purdy , director of marketing . poquet , trying to avoid the `` gadget '' label , responded with the tag line , `` the poquet pc -- a very big computer . '' despite the sniping , few question the inevitability of the move to small machines that do n't make compromises . toward that end , experts say 0 the real battle will take place between center-stage players like toshiba , zenith and now compaq . compaq 's new machines are considered a direct threat to start-up firms like dynabook inc. , which introduced in june a computer that , like compaq 's , uses an intel 286 microprocessor and has a hard disk drive . but the dynabook product is twice as heavy and costs more than compaq 's . compaq 's announcement also spells trouble for zenith , which last year had 28 % of the u.s. laptop market but recently agreed to sell its computer business to cie. des machines bull , the french government-owned computer maker . zenith holders will vote in december on the proposed $ 635 million sale , a price that could slip because it is pegged to zenith 's share and sales . compaq is already taking aim at zenith 's market share . rod canion , compaq 's president and chief executive officer , notes pointedly that zenith 's $ 2,000 minisport uses an `` unconventional '' two-inch floppy disk , whereas compaq 's new machines use the more common 3 1\/2-inch disk . john p. frank , president of zenith data systems , simply shrugs off such criticism , noting that 3 1\/2-inch floppies were also `` unconventional '' when they first replaced five-inch disks . `` we do n't look at it as not being a standard , we look at it as a new standard , '' he argues . analysts do n't see it that way . `` i ca n't imagine that you 'll talk to anyone who wo n't tell you 0 this is dynamite for compaq and a stopper for everyone else , '' says gene talsky , president of professional marketing management inc . adds bill lempesis , senior industry analyst for dataquest , a high-technology market research firm : `` we basically think that these are very hot products . the problem 0 compaq is going to have is that they wo n't be able to make enough of them . '' compaq 's machines include the 3 1\/2-inch floppy disk drive , a backlit screen that is only 1\/4-inch thick and an internal expansion slot for a modem -- in other words , almost all the capabilities of a typical office machine . others undoubtedly will follow , but most analysts believe 0 compaq has at least a six-month lead on the competition . toshiba 's line of portables , for example , features the t-1000 , which is in the same weight class but is much slower and has less memory , and the t-1600 , which also uses a 286 microprocessor , but which weighs almost twice as much and is three times the size . a third model , marketed in japan , may hit the u.s. by the end of the first quarter of 1990 , but by then , analysts say 0 , compaq will have established itself as one of three major players . what about big blue ? international business machines corp. , analysts say 0 , has been burned twice in trying to enter the laptop market and shows no signs of trying to get into notebooks anytime soon .