what if it happened to us ? in the wake of the earthquake in california and the devastation of hurricane hugo , many companies in disaster-prone areas are pondering the question of preparedness . some , particularly in west coast earthquake zones , are dusting off their evacuation plans , checking food stocks and reminding employees of what to do if emergency strikes . others say 0 they feel confident that steps 0 they 've already taken would see them through a disaster . preparedness involves more than flashlights and fire alarms these days . some big companies have teams of in-house experts focusing on safety and business resumption . many companies in the path of potential disaster have set up contingency offices in safe regions , hoping 0 they can transport employees there and resume operations quickly . that means making sure that copies of vital computer software and company records are out of harm 's way . some businesses -- like disneyland -- claim that even if they became isolated in a crisis , they would be able to feed and care for their people for as long as five days . `` self-sufficiency has to be the cornerstone of your plan , '' says stephanie masaki-schatz , manager of corporate emergency planning at atlantic richfield co. in los angeles . `` if you do n't save your critical people , you wo n't be able to bring up your vital business functions . '' although arco 's head office , more than 300 miles from the epicenter , was n't affected by this week 's tremors , ms. masaki-schatz used the occasion to distribute a three-page memo of `` earthquake tips '' to 1,200 arco employees . `` you need to capitalize on these moments when you have everyone 's attention , '' she says . `` it was a good reminder that we all need to prepare prior to an event . '' the arco memo urges employees to keep certain supplies at work , such as solid shoes and `` heavy gloves 0 to clear debris . '' it also recommends that employees be aware of everyday office items that could be used for emergency care or shelter . among the suggestions : pantyhose and men 's ties could be used for slings , while removable wooden shelves might aid in `` breaking through office walls . '' arco maintains an office in dallas that would take over if payroll operations in pasadena were disrupted . two months ago the company set up a toll-free number , based outside california , 0 to handle queries from employees about when they should report back to work after an earthquake or other disaster . the arco plan takes into account such details as which aspects of business are busier at certain times of the year . this way , depending on when a quake might strike , priorities can be assigned to departments that should be brought back on line first . at hewlett-packard co. , the earthquake came just as the company was reviewing its own emergency procedures . `` we were talking about scheduling a practice drill for november , '' says joan tharp , a spokeswoman . `` then we had a real one in the afternoon . '' the palo alto , calif. , computer maker scrambled to set up a special phone line 0 to tell manufacturing and support staff to stay home wednesday . sales and service employees were asked to report to work to help bay area clients who called with computer problems . hewlett-packard also called in its systems experts to restore its own computer operations . `` that means 0 we can accept orders '' and begin getting back to normal , says 0 ms. tharp . prompted by an earlier california earthquake , as well as a fire in a los angeles office tower , great western bank in the past year hired three emergency planners and spent $ 75,000 equipping a trailer with communications gear to serve as an emergency headquarters . although officials of the savings and loan , a unit of great western financial corp. , used some of their new plans and equipment during this week 's quake , they still lost touch for more than 24 hours with 15 branches in the affected areas , not knowing if employees were injured or vaults were broken open . `` some people flat out did n't know what to do , '' says robert g. lee , vice president for emergency planning and corporate security at great western . as it turned out , bank employees were n't hurt and the vaults withstood the jolts . still , says mr. lee : `` we need to educate people that they need to get to a phone somehow , some way , to let someone know what their status is . '' some companies are confident that they 're prepared . occidental petroleum corp. holds regular evacuation drills and stocks food , oxygen and non-prescription drugs at checkpoints in its 16-story headquarters . the company also maintains rechargeable flashlights in offices and changes its standby supply of drinking water every three months . `` we feel 0 we are doing everything 0 we can , '' an occidental spokesman says . walt disney co. 's disneyland in anaheim , calif. , stocks rescue equipment , medical supplies , and enough food and water 0 to feed at least 10,000 visitors for as long as five days in the event that a calamity isolates the theme park . the park also has emergency centers where specially trained employees would go to coordinate evacuation and rescue plans using walkie-talkies , cellular phones , and a public-address system . the centers are complete with maps detailing utility lines beneath rides and `` safe havens '' where people can be assembled away from major structures . vista chemical co. , with three chemical plants in and near lake charles , la. , `` prepares for every hurricane that enters the gulf of mexico , '' says 0 keith l. fogg , a company safety director . hurricane hugo , an atlantic storm , did n't affect vista . but two other major storms have threatened operations so far this year , most recently hurricane jerry this week . because hurricanes can change course rapidly , the company sends employees home and shuts down operations in stages -- the closer a storm gets , the more complete the shutdown . the company does n't wait until the final hours to get ready for hurricanes . `` there are just tons of things that have to be considered , '' mr. fogg says . `` empty tank cars will float away on you if you get a big tidal surge . '' still , vista officials realize 0 they 're relatively fortunate . `` with a hurricane you know 0 it 's coming . you have time 0 to put precautionary mechanisms in place , '' notes a vista spokeswoman . `` a situation like san francisco is so frightening because there 's no warning .