consumer prices rose a surprisingly moderate 0.2 % in september , pushed up mostly by a jump in clothing costs , the labor department reported 0 . energy costs , which drove wholesale prices up sharply during the month , continued to decline at the retail level , pulling down transportation and helping to ease housing costs . the report was the brightest news 0 the financial markets had seen since before the stock market plunged more than 190 points last friday . the dow jones industrial average rallied on the news , closing 39.55 points higher at 2683.20 . bond prices also jumped as traders appeared to read the data as a sign that interest rates may fall . but many economists were not nearly as jubilant . the climb in wholesale energy prices is certain to push up retail energy prices in the next few months , they warned 0 . they also said 0 the dollar is leveling off after a rise this summer that helped to reduce the prices of imported goods . `` i think 0 inflation is going to pick up through the fall , '' said joel popkin , a specialist on inflation who runs an economic consulting firm here . `` it has been in what i would describe as a lull for the past several months . '' `` we 've had whopping declines in consumer energy prices in each of the past three months , and at the wholesale level those are fully behind us now , '' said jay woodworth , chief domestic economist at bankers trust co. in new york . because wholesale energy prices shot up by a steep 6.5 % last month , many analysts expected energy prices to rise at the consumer level too . as a result , many economists were expecting the consumer price index to increase significantly more than it did . but retail energy prices declined 0.9 % in september . though analysts say 0 competition will probably hold down increases in retail energy prices , many expect some of the wholesale rise to be passed along to the consumer before the end of the year . still , some analysts insisted that the worst of the inflation is behind . `` it increasingly appears that 1987-88 was a temporary inflation blip and not the beginning of a cyclical inflation problem , '' argued edward yardeni , chief economist at prudential-bache securities inc. in new york . in both 1987 and 1988 , consumer prices rose 4.4 % . a run-up in world oil prices last winter sent consumer prices soaring at a 6.7 % annual rate in the first five months of this year , but the subsequent decline in energy prices has pulled the annual rate back down to 4.4 % . mr. yardeni predicted that world business competition will continue to restrain prices . `` the bottom line is , 0 it seems to me that the economic environment has become very , very competitve for a lot of businesses , '' he said . `` back in 1987-88 , business was operating at fairly tight capacity , so businesses felt 0 they could raise prices . '' now , he said 0 , a slowdown in economic activity has slackened demand . the mild inflation figures renewed investors ' hopes that the federal reserve will ease its interest-rate stance . the steep climb in producer prices reported last friday fostered pessimism about lower interest rates and contributed to the stock market 's 6.9 % plunge that day . in the past several days , however , the u.s. 's central bank has allowed a key interest rate to fall slightly to try to stabilize the markets . analysts say 0 fed policy makers have been wary of relaxing credit too much because they were still uncertain about the level of inflation in the economy . excluding the volatile categories of energy and food -- leaving what some economists call the core inflation rate -- consumer prices still rose only 0.2 % in september . transportation costs actually fell 0.5 % , and housing costs gained only 0.1 % . apparel prices rocketed up 1.7 % , but that was after three months of declines . medical costs continued their steep ascent , rising 0.8 % after four consecutive months of 0.7 % increases . car prices , another area that contributed to the steep rise in the wholesale index last month , still showed declines at the consumer level . they dropped 0.4 % as dealers continued to offer rebates 0 to attract customers . food prices rose 0.2 % for the second month in a row , far slower than the monthly rises earlier in the year . separately , the labor department reported that average weekly earnings rose 0.3 % in september , after adjusting for inflation , following a 0.7 % decline in august . all the numbers are adjusted for seasonal fluctuations . here are the seasonally adjusted changes in the components of the labor department 's consumer price index for september .