digital equipment corp. is planning a big coming-out party on tuesday for its first line of mainframe computers . but an uninvited guest is expected to try to crash the party . on the morning of the long-planned announcement , international business machines corp. is to introduce its own new mainframe . `` their attitude is , ` you want to talk mainframes , we 'll talk mainframes , ' '' says one computer industry executive . `` they 're deliberately trying to steal our thunder , '' a digital executive complains . `` maybe we should take it as a compliment . '' digital 's target is the $ 40 billion market for mainframe computers , the closet-sized number-crunchers that nearly every big company needs to run its business . ibm , based in armonk , n.y. , has dominated the market for decades . that does n't scare digital , which has grown to be the world 's second-largest computer maker by poaching customers of ibm 's mid-range machines . digital , based in maynard , mass. , hopes to stage a repeat performance in mainframes , and it has spent almost $ 1 billion developing the new technology . a spoiler , nimble tandem computers inc. in cupertino , calif. , jumped into the fray earlier this week with an aggressively priced entry . ibm appears more worried about digital , which has a broad base of customers waiting for the new line , dubbed the vax 9000 . `` it 's going to be nuclear war , '' says thomas willmott , a consultant with aberdeen group inc . the surge in competition is expected to stir new life into the huge mainframe market , where growth has slowed to single digits in recent years . ibm 's traditional mainframe rivals , including unisys corp. , control data corp. and ncr corp. , have struggled recently . digital is promising a new approach . robert m. glorioso , digital 's vice president for high performance systems , says 0 digital 's mainframe is designed not as a central computer around which everything revolves , but as part of a decentralized network weaving together hundreds of workstations , personal computers , printers and other devices . and unlike ibm 's water-cooled mainframes , it does n't need any plumbing . the challengers will have a big price advantage . digital is expected to tag its new line from about $ 1.24 million to $ 4.4 million and up , depending on configuration . that 's about half the price of comparably equipped ibm mainframes . tandem 's pricing is just as aggressive . the heightened competition will hit ibm at a difficult time . the computer giant 's current mainframe line , which has sold well and has huge profit margins , is starting to show its age . the new 3090s due next week will boost performance by only about 8 % to 10 % . and ibm is n't expected to deliver a new generation of mainframes until 1991 . still , no one expects ibm 's rivals to deliver a knockout . ibm has a near-monopoly on mainframes , with an estimated 70 % share of the market . ibm is five times the size of digital -- and 40 times the size of tandem -- and wields enormous market power . it counts among its customers a majority of the world 's largest corporations , which entrust their most critical business information to ibm computers . `` we 're not going to walk in and replace a company 's corporate accounting system if it 's already running on an ibm mainframe , '' concedes kenneth h. olsen , digital 's president . he says 0 digital will target faster-growing market segments such as on-line transaction processing , which includes retail-sales tracking , airline reservations and bank-teller networks . tandem , which already specializes in on-line transaction processing , is a potent competitor in that market . a key marketing target for digital will be the large number of big customers who already own both digital and ibm systems . one such company is bankers trust co . stanley rose , a vice president , technological and strategic planning at bankers trust , says that despite digital 's low prices , `` we are n't about to unplug our ibm mainframes for a dec machine . the software conversion costs would dwarf any savings . '' but mr. rose is still looking seriously at the 9000 . bankers trust uses digital 's vax to run its huge money-transfer and capital markets accounts , juggling hundreds of billions of dollars each day , he says 0 . as that system grows , larger computers may be needed . `` in the past , customers had to go to ibm when they outgrew the vax . now they do n't have to , '' he says . `` that 's going to cost ibm revenue . '' analysts say 0 digital can expect this pent-up demand for the new vax to fuel strong sales next year . barry f. willman , an analyst at sanford c. bernstein & co. , estimates 0 the 9000 could boost sales by more than $ 1 billion in the fiscal year beginning in july . he bases the estimate on a survey of hundreds of digital 's largest customers . although digital will announce a full family of mainframes next week , it is n't expected to begin shipping in volume until next year . the first model available will be the 210 , which is likely to appeal to many technical and scientific buyers interested in the optional super-charger , or vector processor , says 0 terry shannon of international data corp. , a market research concern . four more models , aimed squarely at ibm 's commercial customers , are expected to begin shipping in late june . most analysts do n't expect the new mainframes to begin contributing significantly to revenue before the fiscal first quarter , which begins next july 1 . digital 's new line has been a long time coming . the company has long struggled to deliver a strong mainframe-class product , and made a costly decision in 1988 to halt development of an interim product meant to stem the revenue losses at the high end . digital 's failure to deliver a true mainframe-class machine before now may have cost the company as much as $ 1 billion in revenue in fiscal 1989 , mr. willman says 0 . ibm will face still more competition in coming months . amdahl corp. , backed by japan 's fujitsu ltd. , has a growing share of the market with its low-priced , ibm-compatible machines . and national advanced systems , a joint venture of japan 's hitachi ltd. and general motors corp. 's electronic data systems , is expected to unveil a line of powerful ibm-compatible mainframes later this year . note : nas is national advanced systems , cdc -- control data corp. , bull nh information systems inc . source : international data corp . compiled by publishers weekly from data from large-city bookstores , bookstore chains and local bestseller lists across the u.s. . copyright 1989 by reed publishing usa .