houston attorney dale friend , representing a plaintiff in a damage suit , says 0 he has negotiated a settlement that will strike a blow for his client . literally . it turns out 0 mr. friend 's client , machelle parks of cincinnati , did n't like the way 0 defense attorney tom alexander acted during the legal proceedings . so she has agreed to forgo monetary damages against mr. alexander 's client in return for the right to punch the attorney . ms. parks 's mother also gets to cuff mr. alexander . so does mr. friend and his law partner , nick nichols . the bizarre arrangement grows out of mr. alexander 's representation of derr construction co. , one of several defendants in a wrongful death lawsuit brought by ms. parks , the widow of a construction worker killed in january 1987 while working on a new houston convention center . last month , mr. friend says 0 , mr. alexander 's associate agreed that derr would pay $ 50,000 as part of an overall settlement . but mr. alexander scuttled the deal at the last minute , angering the plaintiff 's side . `` i never agreed to it , '' mr. alexander says , adding that `` it 's not necessary to pay these nuisance settlements . '' when ms. parks and her mother heard about what had happened , mr. friend says 0 , they volunteered that they would like to give mr. alexander a good walloping . mr. friend says 0 he passed that along to his adversary , and soon they were talking about the ground rules under which derr could keep its money and the plaintiffs could take a shot at mr. alexander . although time and place have yet to be determined , some details are in place . mr. friend says 0 he agreed to strike mr. alexander above the belt . ms. parks and her mother indicated 0 they want to `` catch him unawares from behind , '' he says 0 . mr. alexander , for his part , insisted that the punchers ca n't assign their pummeling rights to anyone else , ca n't use a blunt instrument and ca n't take a running start . mr. alexander says 0 he regards the agreement , which has n't been submitted to a judge , as something of a joke . however , he acknowledges 0 they `` have the option of taking a swat at me if they really want to . '' mr. friend says 0 his side is `` dead serious . '' although they do n't contemplate delivering any disabling blows , he says that mr. alexander will be asked to sign a release from liability , just in case .