the u.s. equal employment opportunity commission sued new york state for age discrimination against appointed state judges . the suit , filed in federal court in manhattan , charges that new york 's mandatory retirement age of 76 violates federal law . separately , the commission intervened in a connecticut state judge 's age-bias suit in federal court in new haven . the commission 's filing in that case challenges connecticut 's mandatory retirement age of 70 for appointed judges . the new york suit was filed on behalf of justice isaac rubin , whose appointment to the state appellate division expires at year end , and all other judges hurt by the alleged age discrimination . the suit , assigned to federal judge kimba wood , seeks a permanent injunction , back pay for judges who have been forced to retire , reinstatement of retired judges and `` other affirmative relief necessary to eradicate the effects of -lrb- new york 's -rrb- unlawful employment practices . '' justice rubin , a state judge since 1969 , said 0 the mandatory-retirement age hurts the court system because it deprives the state of experienced judges still capable of serving on the bench . `` the issue is n't age -- age is just a number . the issue is one of a judge 's experience , his competence and his physical ability to serve on the bench , '' justice rubin said . `` i 've had no problems performing my duties and responsibilities . '' because justice rubin turned 76 on may 9 , he is n't eligible to be reappointed to the bench at the end of the year . the suit 's impact on new york may be narrow , however . most new york judges are elected , and the federal age-discrimination law does n't apply to elected officials , said 0 james l. lee , regional attorney for the eeoc in new york . under new york law , elected judges must retire at age 70 , but then can be appointed to two-year terms until they reach 76 . a spokeswoman for the state 's office of court administration declined to comment on the suit . but she said 0 the state currently has 35 appointed judges who are over 70 . in connecticut , however , most state judges are appointed by the governor and approved by the state legislature . the parties in the connecticut case have agreed to stay proceedings pending the appeal of another eeoc age-bias case against vermont . in the vermont case , a federal judge ruled that the state 's mandatory age of 70 for appointed judges was illegal ; vermont 's appeal of that decision is pending before the u.s. second circuit court of appeals in manhattan . aaron ment , connecticut 's chief court administrator , declined to comment on the suit and the eeoc 's intervention . he said 0 the state has 165 appointed judges and 15 `` trial referees , '' who are former judges over age 70 and serve a restricted role on the bench . organized crime strike forces likely to be abolished next month . u.s. attorney general dick thornburgh 's plan to dissolve the 14 regional organized-crime strike forces is expected to go into effect next month , despite the opposition of democratic congressional leaders and lawyers in the special units . the units are autonomous from u.s. attorneys ' offices and focus exclusively on prosecuting organized-crime cases . in february , mr. thornburgh announced his plan to abolish the units . he says 0 the strike-force lawyers will work more efficiently under the supervision of u.s. attorneys . mr. thornburgh will be free to disband the strike forces after congress approves a $ 479 million appropriation for federal law-enforcement and drug-interdiction agencies , according to david runkel , a justice department spokesman . the bill is expected to pass in congress next month . congress temporarily halted mr. thornburgh 's effort with an appropriation resolution that prohibited him from using budgeted funds to implement his plan . opponents say 0 mr. thornburgh 's plan will needlessly break up longtime , tightly knit crime-fighting units that have successfully prosecuted major organized-crime figures . they predict that organized-crime activity will increase once the units are dissolved and their responsibilities transferred to u.s. attorneys ' offices . some former strike-force personnel say 0 the units have already begun to break up . the eastern district unit in brooklyn , n.y. , lost seven of its 15 attorneys this year partly because the lawyers were troubled by the proposed reorganization , says 0 laura a. brevetti , who left the strike force to join morrison cohen singer & weinstein , a new york law firm . `` those who have left have expressed an opinion that the strike force should continue , '' ms. brevetti says . but mr. runkel contends 0 there has been no exodus of strike-force lawyers . he says 0 27 lawyers have left and 21 have been hired since mr. thornburgh announced his plan . at the time 0 the plan was announced , there were 135 lawyers . some congressional leaders intend to continue to fight for independent strike forces . a spokesman for sen. edward m. kennedy -lrb- d. , mass . -rrb- says 0 mr. thornburgh would be required to reinstate the units next year if an proposed omnibus crime bill is passed . among other things , the bill calls for a reorganization of the justice department . the senate is expected to consider the bill shortly , says 0 the senator 's spokesman . mr. runkel says 0 he doubts 0 mr. kennedy can muster enough congressional support to reorganize the justice department . `` we will vigorously oppose the bill , '' he says . `` i do n't think 0 -lrb- the reorganization is -rrb- going to happen . '' whitman & ransom recruits lawyers from disbanding firm : the 204-lawyer new york firm will bring in at least 12 partners and a not yet determined number of associates from golenbock & barell , which will dissolve dec. 31 . golenbock , with 35 lawyers , has lost several partners during the past year . some golenbock lawyers wo n't be invited to join whitman & ransom , according to partners at both firms . whitman & ransom managing partner maged f. riad said 0 the golenbock recruits will enhance the firm 's corporate and litigation departments . short skirts not welcome in texas court : shelly hancock , a male county court judge in houston , refused to let a woman plead guilty to a drunk-driving charge because her skirt stopped three inches above her knees . the woman appeared in court thursday to enter her plea , but when she started to approach the bench , she was stopped by judge hancock . he told the woman 's lawyer , victor blaine , that the short skirt was inappropriate for a court appearance . despite mr. blaine 's protests , the judge rescheduled her case for nov. 27 . kelly siegler , an assistant district attorney who was in the courtroom , disputed suggestions 0 the action was sexist , saying 0 she had seen judge hancock turn away male defendants dressed in shorts , tank tops or muscle shirts `` many times . '' judge hancock did n't return phone calls .