the internal revenue service said 0 it is willing to let the u.s. tax court decide how much oil man william herbert hunt will owe the government after his assets are liquidated . the surprise announcement came after the irs broke off negotiations with mr. hunt on a settlement of the one-time tycoon 's personal bankruptcy case . although the action removes one obstacle in the way of an overall settlement to the case , it also means that mr. hunt could be stripped of virtually all of his assets if the tax court rules against him in a 1982 case heard earlier this year in washington , d.c . the irs has been seeking more than $ 300 million in back taxes from mr. hunt . separately , a federal judge hearing mr. hunt 's bankruptcy case yesterday turned down a proposed $ 65.7 million settlement between mr. hunt and minpeco s.a. , another major creditor in the case . the peruvian minerals concern had been seeking a claim of $ 251 million against mr. hunt . in addition to turning down the compromise , judge harold c. abramson said 0 he would allow a claim of only $ 19.7 million . minpeco attorneys said 0 they would appeal the decision to a federal district court . regarding mr. hunt 's taxes , he and the irs have apparently agreed on a basic formula for liquidating his estate in which the irs would get 70 % of the proceeds from a liquidating trust and 30 % would go to other creditors . but they have been at odds over how much mr. hunt would owe the government after his assets are sold . the irs had demanded $ 90 million but mr. hunt would agree to no more than $ 60 million . grover hartt iii , a government lawyer , warned that mr. hunt stood to lose certain oil and gas properties , $ 200,000 in english pottery , a colorado condominium and other assets 0 he might have kept if he had settled with the irs . `` but they wanted to roll the dice and we 're going to let them , '' mr. hartt said . stephen mccartin , mr. hunt 's attorney , said 0 his client welcomed the gamble . the tax court is n't expected to rule before early next year .