tokyo stocks closed firmer monday , with the nikkei index making its fifth consecutive daily gain . stocks also rose in london , while the frankfurt market was mixed . in tokyo , the nikkei index added 99.14 to 35585.52 . the index moved above 35670 at midmorning , nearly reaching the record of 35689.98 set sept. 28 . but the market lost part of the early gains on index-linked investment trust fund selling . in early trading in tokyo tuesday , the nikkei index rose 1.08 points to 35586.60 . on monday , traders noted that some investors took profits against the backdrop of the nikkei 's fast-paced recovery following its plunge last monday in reaction to the oct. 13 drop in new york stock prices . but overall buying interest remained strong through monday , with many observers saying 0 they expect the nikkei to continue with moderate gains this week . turnover remained relatively small . volume on the first section was estimated at 600 million shares , down from 1.03 billion shares friday . the tokyo stock price index of first section issues was up 7.81 at 2687.53 . relatively stable foreign currency dealings monday were viewed favorably by market players , traders said 0 . but institutional investors may wait a little longer to appraise the direction of the u.s. monetary policy and the dollar , traders said 0 . hiroyuki wada , general manager of the stock department at okasan securities , said 0 monday 's trading was `` unfocused . '' he said 0 investors were picking individual stocks based on specific incentives and the likelihood of a wider price increase over the short term . the selective approach blurred themes such as domestic-demand issues , large-capitalization issues or high-technology shares , which had been providing at least some trading direction over the past few weeks , mr. wada said 0 . investors took profits on major construction shares , which advanced last week , shifting their attention to some midsize companies such as aoki corp. , tobishima and maeda . aoki gained 60 yen to 1,480 yen -lrb- $ 10.40 -rrb- . some pharmaceutical shares were popular on rumors related to new products 0 to be introduced at a cancer conference that opened in nagoya . teijin was up 15 at 936 , and kyowa hakko gained 30 to 1,770 . mochida advanced 40 to 4,440 . fujisawa continued to attract investors because of strong earning prospects stemming from a new immune control agent . fujisawa gained 50 to 2,060 . kikkoman was up 30 to 1,600 , receiving investor interest for its land property holdings near tokyo , a trader said 0 . london prices closed modestly higher in the year 's thinnest turnover , a condition that underscored a lack of conviction ahead of a u.k. balance of payments report tuesday . limited volume ahead of the september trade data showed 0 the market is nervous , but dealers added that the day 's modest gains also signaled some support for london equities . they pegged the support largely to anticipation that britain 's current account imbalance ca n't be much worse than the near record deficits seen in july and august . `` it 's a case of the market being too high 0 to buy and too afraid 0 to sell , '' a senior dealer with kleinwort benson securities said . `` it 's better to wait . '' the financial times 100-share index finished 10.6 points higher at 2189.7 . the 30-share index closed 11.6 points higher at 1772.6 . volume was 276.8 million shares , beneath the year 's previous low of 280.5 million shares sept. 25 , the session before the august trade figures were released . analysts ' expectations suggest a september current account deficit of # 1.6 billion -lrb- $ 2.54 billion -rrb- , compared with august 's # 2.0 billion deficit . dealers , however , said 0 forecasts are broadly divergent with estimates ranging between # 1 billion and # 2 billion . `` the range of expectations is so broad , '' a dealer at another major u.k. brokerage firm said , `` 0 the deficit may have to be nearer or above # 2 billion for it to have any impact on the market . '' lucas industries , a british automotive and aerospace concern , rose 13 pence to 614 pence after it said 0 its pretax profit for the year rose 28 % . share prices on the frankfurt stock exchange closed narrowly mixed in quiet dealings after recovering most of their early losses . the dax index eased 0.99 point to end at 1523.22 after falling 5.5 points early in the session . brokers said 0 the declines early in the day were partly caused by losses of the ruling christian-democratic union in communal elections in the state of baden-wuerttemberg . the start of a weeklong conference by the ig metall metal worker union in berlin is drawing attention to the impending wage negotiations , which could boost companies ' personnel costs next year , they said 0 . but there was little selling pressure , and even small orders at the lower levels sufficed to bring the market back to friday 's opening levels . traders said 0 the thin trading volume points to continued uncertainty by most investors following last monday 's record 13 % loss . the market is still 4 % short of its level before the plunge , and analysts are n't sure how long it will take until the dax has closed that gap . but norbert braeuer , chief trader at hessische landesbank girozentrale -lrb- helaba -rrb- , said 0 he expects share prices to move upward in the coming weeks . banking stocks were the major gainers monday amid hope that interest rates have peaked , as deutsche bank and dresdner bank added 4 marks each to 664 marks -lrb- $ 357 -rrb- and 326 marks , respectively . commerzbank gained 1 to 252.5 . auto shares were mixed , as daimler-benz firmed 2 to 723 , bayerische motoren werke lost the same amount to 554 , and volkswagen inched down 1.4 to 451.6 . elsewhere , prices closed higher in amsterdam , lower in zurich , stockholm and milan , mixed in brussels and unchanged in paris . shares closed higher in hong kong , singapore and manila , and were lower in sydney , seoul and taipei . wellington was closed . here are price trends on the world 's major stock markets , as calculated by morgan stanley capital international perspective , geneva . to make them directly comparable , each index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100 . the percentage change is since year-end .