the federal reserve board said 0 it is delaying approval of first union corp. 's proposed $ 849 million acquisition of florida national banks of florida inc. , pending the outcome of an examination into first union 's lending practices in low-income neighborhoods . the decision reflects the fed 's tougher stance on enforcing the community reinvestment act , a federal law passed in 1977 to help low-income residents obtain loans . in recent years , unions and community groups have won big commitments from banks to make low-interest loans in certain neighborhoods by threatening to hold up proposed acquisitions with protests to the fed about reinvestment act compliance . few petitions , however , have actually delayed or scuttled mergers . the current dispute involves allegations that charlotte , n.c.-based first union has n't lived up to its responsibilities under the reinvestment act . during the summer , legal services corp. , a florida legal aid group , filed a petition with the fed on behalf of residents in four florida counties . the petition challenged first union 's lending record in the state , saying that the bank-holding company had `` shut itself off from contact with the low-income community and is redlining almost every black neighborhood that it serves in the state . '' in deferring action on the merger , the fed said 0 , `` the board does not believe that there is sufficient information in the record at this time to allow -lcb- it -rcb- to reach a final conclusion on first union 's record of helping to meet the credit needs of the communities 0 it serves in florida and north carolina , including low to moderate-income neighborhoods in those communities . '' the fed said 0 the comptroller of the currency is expected to begin a community reinvestment act examination of first union 's florida and north carolina banking units in the next two weeks . first union , with assets of about $ 32 billion , said 0 it was disappointed by the delay but said 0 it would cooperate with regulatory authorities . the bank added that it believes 0 the review will `` demonstrate that first union is in compliance with the requirements of the community reinvestment act . '' the company has already missed its initial oct. 1 target date for completing the merger . it said yesterday 0 it still expects to close the acquisition later this year or early in 1990 . florida national , if acquired , would almost double first union 's banking franchise in florida to $ 17 billion in assets . that would make it the second-largest bank , after barnett banks inc. , in a state widely considered to be the most lucrative banking market in the country . in new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday , first union shares rose 25 cents to $ 23 . florida national stock closed unchanged at $ 25.875 in national over-the-counter trading . earlier this year , the fed denied an application by continental bank corp. to purchase grand canyon state bank in scottsdale , ariz. , on grounds that continental had n't fully complied with the community reinvestment act . at the time , the fed said 0 the denial , the first ever on such grounds , signaled the agency 's new emphasis on the community reinvestment act .