this is the year 0 the negative ad , for years a secondary presence in most political campaigns , became the main event . the irony is that the attack commercial , after getting a boost in last year 's presidential campaign , has come of age in an off-off election year with only a few contests scattered across the country . but in the three leading political contests of 1989 , the negative ads have reached new levels of hostility , raising fears that this kind of mudslinging , empty of significant issues , is ushering in a new era of campaigns without content . `` now , '' says joseph napolitan , a pioneer in political television , `` the idea is to attack first , last and always . '' a trend that started with the first stirrings of politics , accelerated with the dawn of the television age and became a sometimes-tawdry art form in 1988 , has reached an entirely new stage . `` to get people 's attention these days , '' says douglas bailey , a political consultant , `` your tv ad needs to be bold and entertaining , and , more often than not , that means confrontational . and , unlike a few years ago , you do n't even have to worry whether the ad is truthful . '' in 1989 , as often as not , the principal fights in the major campaigns are prompted by the ads themselves . take a look , then , at the main attack commercials that set the tone for tuesday 's elections in new york city , new jersey and virginia : new york city : the screen fills with a small , tight facial shot of david dinkins , democratic candidate for mayor of new york city . `` david dinkins failed to file his income taxes for four straight years , '' says a disembodied male voice . and then this television commercial , paid for by republican rudolph giuliani 's campaign and produced by roger ailes , the master of negative tv ads , really gets down to business . mr. dinkins , the ad charges 0 , also failed to report his campaign contributions accurately , hid his links to a failing insurance company and paid a convicted kidnapper `` through a phony organization with no members , no receipts and no office . '' `` david dinkins , '' says the kicker , `` why does he always wait until he 's caught ? '' `` nasty innuendoes , '' says john siegal , mr. dinkins 's issues director , `` designed to prosecute a case of political corruption that simply does n't exist . '' stung by the giuliani ads , mr. dinkins 's tv consultants , robert shrum and david doak , finally unleashed a negative ad of their own . the screen shows two distorted , unrecognizable photos , presumably of two politicians . `` compare two candidates for mayor , '' says the announcer . `` one says 0 he 's for banning cop-killer bullets . the other has opposed a ban on cop-killer bullets . one claims 0 he 's pro-choice . the other has opposed a woman 's right to choose . '' `` funny thing , '' says the kicker , `` both these candidates are named rudolph giuliani . '' who 's telling the truth ? everybody -- and nobody . it 's a classic situation of ads that are true but not always fully accurate . mr. dinkins did fail to file his income taxes for four years , but he insists 0 he voluntarily admitted the `` oversight '' when he was being considered for a city job . he was on the board of an insurance company with financial problems , but he insists 0 he made no secret of it . the city 's campaign finance board has refused to pay mr. dinkins $ 95,142 in matching funds because his campaign records are incomplete . the campaign has blamed these reporting problems on computer errors . and , says 0 mr. dinkins , he did n't know 0 the man 0 his campaign paid for a get-out-the-vote effort had been convicted of kidnapping . but , say 0 mr. dinkins 's managers , he did have an office and his organization did have members . mr. giuliani 's campaign chairman , peter powers , says 0 the dinkins ad is `` deceptive . '' the other side , he argues 0 , `` knows 0 giuliani has always been pro-choice , even though he has personal reservations . they know 0 he is generally opposed to cop-killer bullets , but that he had some reservations about the language in the legislation . '' virginia : democratic lt. gov. douglas wilder opened his gubernatorial battle with republican marshall coleman with an abortion commercial produced by frank greer that analysts of every political persuasion agree 0 was a tour de force . against a shot of monticello superimposed on an american flag , an announcer talks about the `` strong tradition of freedom and individual liberty '' that virginians have nurtured for generations . then , just as an image of the statue of thomas jefferson dissolves from the screen , the announcer continues : `` on the issue of abortion , marshall coleman wants to take away your right to choose and give it to the politicians . '' that commercial -- which said 0 mr. coleman wanted to take away the right of abortion `` even in cases of rape and incest , '' a charge 0 mr. coleman denies -- changed the dynamics of the campaign , transforming it , at least in part , into a referendum on abortion . the ad prompted mr. coleman , the former virginia attorney general , to launch a series of advertisements created by bob goodman and designed to shake mr. wilder 's support among the very women who were attracted by the abortion ad . the coleman counterattack featured a close-up of a young woman in shadows and the ad suggested that she was recalling an unpleasant courtroom ordeal . a voice says , `` c'mon , now , do n't you have boyfriends ? '' then an announcer interjects : `` it was douglas wilder who introduced a bill 0 to force rape victims age 13 and younger to be interrogated about their private lives by lawyers for accused rapists . so the next time 0 mr. wilder talks about the rights of women , ask him about this law 0 he tried to pass . '' mr. wilder did introduce such legislation 17 years ago , but he did so at the request of a constituent , a common legislative technique used by lawmakers . the legislation itself noted that it was introduced `` by request , '' and in 1983 mr. wilder introduced a bill 0 to protect rape victims from unfounded interrogation . `` people have grown tired of these ads and coleman has gotten the stigma of being a negative campaigner , '' says mark rozell , a political scientist at mary washington college . `` wilder has managed to get across the idea that coleman will say anything to get elected governor and -- more important -- has been able to put the onus for all the negative campaigning on coleman . '' mr. coleman said this week that he would devote the remainder of the political season to positive campaigning , but the truce lasted only hours . by tuesday night , television stations were carrying new ads featuring mr. coleman himself raising questions about mr. wilder 's sensitivity to rape victims . new jersey : the attacks began when democratic rep. james florio aired an ad featuring a drawing of pinocchio and a photograph of mr. florio 's rival , republican rep. jim courter . `` remember pinocchio ? '' says a female voice . `` consider jim courter . '' and then this commercial , produced by bob squier , gets down to its own mean and dirty business . pictures of rusted oil drums swim into focus , and the female voice purrs , `` that hazardous waste on his -lcb- mr. courter 's -rcb- property -- the neighbors are suing for consumer fraud . '' and the nose on mr. courter 's face grows . the only fraud involved , cry mr. courter 's partisans , is the florio commercial itself , and so the courter campaign has responded with its own pinocchio commercial , produced by mr. ailes . in this one , the screen fills with photographs of both candidates . `` who 's really lying ? '' asks a female voice . `` florio 's lying , '' the voice goes on , because `` the barrel on courter 's land ... contained heating oil , was cleaned up and caused no pollution . '' mr. courter 's long nose shrinks while mr. florio 's grows . who 's telling the truth ? stephen salmore , a political scientist at new jersey 's eagleton institute , says 0 it 's another example of an ad that 's true but not fully accurate . barrels were dumped on the courter property , a complaint was made , but there is no evidence 0 the barrels were a serious threat to the environment . even so , according to mr. salmore , the ad was `` devastating '' because it raised questions about mr. courter 's credibility . but it 's building on a long tradition . in 1966 , on route to a re-election rout of democrat frank o'connor , gop gov. nelson rockefeller of new york appeared in person saying , `` if you want to keep the crime rates high , o'connor is your man . ''