coldwell banker commercial group said 0 it sold $ 47 million of common stock to its employees at $ 10 a share , giving them a total stake of more than 40 % in the commercial real estate brokerage firm . the firm , which was acquired in april from sears , roebuck & co. in a management-led buy-out , had planned to sell up to $ 56.4 million of stock , or a 50 % stake in the company , to its 5,000 employees . though the offering did n't sell out , james j. didion , chairman and chief executive officer , said , `` we 're pretty proud of the employees ' response . '' he noted that unlike an employee stock ownership plan , where a company usually borrows money from third party lenders to buy stock that it sets aside to award employees over time , here employees had to fork out their own cash for the stock . `` they came up with their own money instead of borrowed money , '' mr. didion said . `` it 's totally different . '' he said 0 the offering was designed to create long-term incentives for employees . `` we 're in a service business , and in that context , it 's vital to have your employees involved in the ownership so they have a stake in the success . '' the brokerage firm wo n't pay a dividend on the stock . employees have the right to trade stock among themselves , and the company will establish an internal clearing house for these transactions . they may also eventually sell the shares to third parties , but the outside investors who own the remaining 60 % of coldwell banker have the right to first refusal . those outside investors in coldwell banker include carlyle group , a closely held washington , d.c. , merchant banking firm whose co-chairman is frank carlucci , former secretary of defense ; frederic v. malek , senior adviser to carlyle group ; mellon family trust of pittsburgh ; westinghouse credit corp. , the financial services unit of westinghouse electric corp. ; bankers trust co. , a unit of bankers trust new york corp. ; and a group of japanese investors represented by the investment banking unit of tokyo-based sumitomo bank . bankers trust and sumitomo financed the $ 300 million acquisition from sears roebuck . coldwell banker also named three outside director nominees for its 17 member board . the nominees are gary wilson , chief financial officer of walt disney co. ; james montgomery , chief executive officer of great western financial corp. ; and peter ubberroth , former commissioner of baseball and now a private investor .