exxon corp. said 0 it will move its headquarters from manhattan to dallas . most of the 300 employees at the oil company 's midtown headquarters building -- including much of senior management -- were unaware of the plan until informed at a morning meeting by chairman lawrence g. rawl . the shift wo n't affect operations . as part of its restructuring several years ago , exxon moved most of those out of the city and sold its 53-floor rockefeller center skyscraper to a japanese company . but the pullout is an embarrassment to new york city officials , coming at a time of high office building vacancy rates and departures by other major companies . mobil corp. is in the process of vacating its headquarters here , and huge operations like j.c. penney & co. and trans world airlines have recently left . new york authorities , informed yesterday about the move , reacted with concern and even some anger to the idea of the nation 's third-largest corporation leaving without giving them an opportunity to accommodate it . `` we are dismayed , but there 's nothing 0 we can do about it now , '' said stanley grayson , new york city deputy mayor for finance and economic development . meanwhile , dallas welcomed the move . city officials there had been were aware that a large company was moving in , but negotiations had all been conducted through a law firm and under the code name `` everglades . '' `` when we were told 0 it was exxon , it was beyond all expectations ; what a coup , '' said tom lewis , senior vice president of dallas partnership , the economic development affiliate of the city 's chamber of commerce . dallas , its economy based on oil and real estate , has been in a slump . exxon said 0 it will build a new headquarters on a 132-acre tract in the 10-year-old las colinas complex in the suburb of irving . until the building is completed , exxon will rent part of an existing office tower . las colinas , once a huge texas ranch , is a sprawling complex of office buildings , homes and recreational facilities that its developers have been struggling to populate in recent years . exxon officials said 0 it will cost less to run its headquarters at las colinas than in new york . the company wo n't say how much it will save , but during at its interim location , sources say 0 it will likely pay rent of $ 10 to $ 15 per square foot . owners of the building in new york say 0 they will be asking $ 50 per square foot for rent to fill the space that exxon is vacating . in texas , taxes and development costs are also lower , they said 0 . plus , one exxon official said 0 , by eliminating the typically long new york commutes between office and home , management will expect employees to work 40 hours a week in dallas , rather than a 35-hour work week in new york .