yields on money-market mutual funds continued to slide , amid signs that portfolio managers expect further declines in interest rates . the average seven-day compound yield of the 400 taxable funds tracked by ibc 's money fund report eased a fraction of a percentage point to 8.45 % from 8.47 % for the week ended tuesday . compound yields assume reinvestment of dividends and that the current yield continues for a year . average maturity of the funds ' investments lengthened by a day to 41 days , the longest since early august , according to donoghue 's . longer maturities are thought to indicate declining interest rates because they permit portfolio managers to retain relatively higher rates for a longer period . shorter maturities are considered a sign of rising rates because portfolio managers can capture higher rates sooner . the average maturity for funds open only to institutions , considered by some to be a stronger indicator because those managers watch the market closely , reached a high point for the year -- 33 days . nevertheless , said brenda malizia negus , editor of money fund report , yields `` may blip up again before they blip down '' because of recent rises in short-term interest rates . the yield on six-month treasury bills sold at monday 's auction , for example , rose to 8.04 % from 7.90 % . despite recent declines in yields , investors continue to pour cash into money funds . assets of the 400 taxable funds grew by $ 1.5 billion during the latest week , to $ 352.7 billion . typically , money-fund yields beat comparable short-term investments because portfolio managers can vary maturities and go after the highest rates . the top money funds are currently yielding well over 9 % . dreyfus world-wide dollar , the top-yielding fund , had a seven-day compound yield of 9.37 % during the latest week , down from 9.45 % a week earlier . it invests heavily in dollar-denominated securities overseas and is currently waiving management fees , which boosts its yield . the average seven-day simple yield of the 400 funds was 8.12 % , down from 8.14 % . the 30-day simple yield fell to an average 8.19 % from 8.22 % ; the 30-day compound yield slid to an average 8.53 % from 8.56 % .