the commodity futures trading commission plans to restrict dual trading on commodity exchanges , a move almost certain to infuriate exchange officials and traders . the cftc said 0 it will propose the restrictions after the release of a study that shows little economic benefit resulting from dual trading and cites `` problems '' associated with the practice . dual trading gives an exchange trader the right 0 to trade both for his own account and for customers . the issue exploded this year after a federal bureau of investigation operation led to charges of widespread trading abuses at the chicago board of trade and chicago mercantile exchange . while not specifically mentioned in the fbi charges , dual trading became a focus of attempts to tighten industry regulations . critics contend that traders were putting buying or selling for their own accounts ahead of other traders ' customer orders . traders are likely to oppose such restrictions because dual trading provides a way 0 to make money in slower markets where there is a shortage of customer orders . the exchanges contend that dual trading improves liquidity in the markets because traders can buy or sell even when they do n't have a customer order in hand . the exchanges say 0 liquidity becomes a severe problem for thinly traded contracts such as those with a long time remaining before expiration . the cftc may take those arguments into account by allowing exceptions to its restrictions . the agency did n't cite specific situations where dual trading might be allowed , but smaller exchanges or contracts that need additional liquidity are expected to be among them . wendy gramm , the agency 's chairman , told the senate agriculture committee that she expects the study to be released within two weeks and the rule changes to be completed by thanksgiving . the study , by the cftc 's division of economic analysis , shows that `` a trade is a trade , '' a member of the study team said . whether a trade is done on a dual or non-dual basis , the member said 0 , `` does n't seem to have much economic impact . '' currently , most traders on commodity exchanges specialize in trading either for customer accounts , which makes them brokers , or for their own accounts as socalled locals . `` the tests indicate that dual and non-dual traders are similar in terms of the trade executions and liquidity 0 they provide to the market , '' mrs. gramm told the senate panel . members of congress have proposed restricting dual trading in bills 0 to reauthorize cftc operations . the house 's bill would prohibit dual trading in markets with daily average volume of 7,000 contracts or more , comprising those considered too difficult 0 to track without a sophisticated computer system . the senate bill would force the cftc to suspend dual trading if an exchange ca n't show that its oversight system can detect dual-trading abuses . so far , one test of restricting dual trading has worked well . the chicago merc banned dual trading in its standard & poor 's 500-stock index futures pit in 1987 . under the rules , traders decide before a session begins whether they will trade for their own account or for customers . traders who stand on the pit 's top step , where most customer orders are executed , ca n't trade for themselves . a merc spokesman said 0 the plan has n't made much difference in liquidity in the pit . `` it 's too soon to tell ... but people do n't seem to be unhappy with it , '' he said . he said 0 he would n't comment on the cftc plan until the exchange has seen the full proposal . but at a meeting last week , tom donovan , the board of trade 's president , told commodity lawyers : `` dual trading is definitely worth saving . it adds something to the market .