london share prices closed sharply lower friday in active trading after chancellor of the exchequer nigel lawson 's resignation slapped the market and wall street 's rapid initial sell-off knocked it down . london shares were depressed initially by overnight losses in new york and by the drop in sterling after mr. lawson 's resignation . it showed some early resilience after central bank support firmed sterling , but the weight of wall street late in london trading , and signs of further weakness in the british pound , proved a hefty load 0 to bear . new york stocks recovered some of their losses after the london market closed . the financial times 100-share index shed 47.3 points to close at 2082.1 , down 4.5 % from the previous friday and 6.8 % from oct. 13 , when wall street 's plunge helped spark the current weakness in london . the 30-share index settled 42.0 points lower at 1678.5 . volume was 840.8 million shares , up from 443.6 million thursday and the week 's most active session . dealers said 0 the turnover , largely confined to the 100-share index stocks , partly reflected the flurry of activity typical at the close of a two-week trading account and the start of a new account . but they said 0 friday 's focus on the top-tier stocks telegraphed active overseas selling and showed the broad-based fears over the status of the u.k. economy and britain 's currency in the wake of the upheaval in prime minister margaret thatcher 's cabinet . a senior dealer with warburg securities noted 0 british gas , the most active blue-chip stock at 20 million shares traded , was affected by the political implications of mr. lawson 's departure and mrs. thatcher 's cabinet shuffle . he attributed the unusually high volume to broad-based selling on fears that the thatcher government may be in turmoil and britain 's labor party positioned to regain control of the government and renew efforts at nationalization . british gas shed 8.5 pence a share to close at 185 pence -lrb- $ 2.90 -rrb- . other dealers added that the blue-chip stocks in general were hit by profit-taking over concerns that london shares will continue posting declines and the uncertainty over sterling given that mr. lawson 's successor , john major , had only been in the job one day . besides british gas , british steel skidded 1.74 to 123.5 on turnover of 11 million shares . british petroleum fell 5 to 286 on 14 million shares traded . dealers said 0 the multinational oil company was pressured by recent brokerage recommendations urging investors to switch into shell trading & transport . shell eased 1 to 416 on turnover of 4.8 million shares . among the other actively traded blue-chip issues , imperial chemical industries dropped 11 to # 10.86 , hanson skidded 9.5 to 200.5 , and british telecom fell 10 to 250 . in tokyo , stocks closed lower but above intraday lows in active trading . the nikkei index was pressured down by profit-taking triggered by sharp advances made through this week and fell 151.20 points to 35527.29 . in early trading in tokyo monday , the nikkei index fell 148.85 points to 35378.44 . on friday , the tokyo stock price index of first section issues was down 15.82 at 2681.76 . first-section volume was estimated at 1.3 billion shares , up from 886 million shares thursday . an official at wako securities said 0 brokerages ' excessive expectations about recent advances in tokyu group shares and real estate issues were dashed friday . dealers placed heavy buy orders in the morning to start the first trading day for november transactions . but they failed to sell these stocks to client investors , who were cautious about the sharp gains 0 these issues made this week , the wako official said 0 . fund managers said 0 friday 's profittaking was a natural result of the week 's `` abnormal fever '' in buying real estate , shipbuilding , steel and construction shares . frankfurt prices closed lower again friday , the fourth decline in the past five days and the culmination of a week that saw the dax index lose 4 % . the dax dropped 19.69 points friday to 1462.93 . traders said 0 the continued turbulence in other markets , coupled with the drop in london following the lawson resignation , were responsible . traders said that selling pressure was n't enormous and that the dax dropped friday more on a lack of any substantial buying interest . they said 0 contributing to the downward drift was the fact that many professional traders had chosen to square positions ahead of the weekend . `` it 's the whole uncertainty about what 's happening around us , '' said valentin von korff , a trader at credit suisse first boston in frankfurt . `` if you take away the outside influences , the market itself looks very cheap . what 's happening here is n't justified by the fundamentals . '' traders said 0 the market remains extremely nervous because of the wild swings seen on the new york stock exchange last week . that 's leaving small investors with cold feet , they said 0 , and prompting institutions to take a reserved stance on the sidelines as well , at least until the market in new york settles down somewhat . elsewhere , share prices closed lower in paris , zurich , amsterdam , brussels and stockholm , and were mixed in milan . the british shakeup was widely cited for the declines . share prices also closed lower in sydney , hong kong , singapore , taipei , manila , wellington and seoul . concern about declines in other markets , especially new york , caused selling pressure . here are price trends on the world 's major stock markets , as calculated by morgan stanley capital international perspective , geneva . to make them directly comparable , each index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100 . the percentage change is since year-end . last week 's best and worst performing stocks among those issues that make up 80 % of the world 's stock market capitalization -lrb- in local currency -rrb- source : morgan stanley capital intl .