they want late-night shuttles to the biology labs . they want a 24-hour library . and like college radicals everywhere , they are talking about a demonstration -- where protesters would gather quietly near the science building and raise their hands , classroom style . such is the fiber of the wool that woolly intellectuals let fly at gatherings of harvard university 's new society of nerds and geeks , or song . songsters are mad as heck about campus anti-intellectualism and they are n't going to take it anymore , at least not without trying a few really neat ideas first . `` we could have called ourselves the academic intellectual society , but then everyone would have said , ` oh , you mean the nerd-and-geek club , ' '' leonid fridman , song 's graduate-student adviser , told 19 attendees at the club 's inaugural meeting earlier this month . membership has since swelled to between 20 and 25 . some people may think of nerds as calculator-toting , socially awkward individuals with shirt-pocket liners for their pencils and a preoccupation with computers and matters numerical . geeks , by at least one definition , are chicken-mutilating circus freaks . but song founder jeremy kahn , a harvard junior , thinks of nerds and geeks more as `` nonconformists , '' albeit with a studious bent . one of the group 's first projects is a `` procrastination hot line '' that students could call when they have an urge to delay studying . the club plans to show nerdy movies , such as `` real genius , '' in which physics whizzes pop corn with lasers ; and naturally , the `` revenge of the nerds , '' a tale of college males with runny noses and ill-fitting pants . one of its `` more ambitious goals '' is to get jaime escalante , the los angeles high-school mathematics teacher featured in the film `` stand and deliver , '' to come to harvard for a guest lecture . nerds and geeks sometimes find themselves a bit isolated at harvard . so mr. kahn says 0 high priority is being given to creating a computerized matchmaking service `` where instead of being matched for eye color , you could be matched for similar intellectual interests . '' for instance ? `` i 'm a math major , but i want to know about psychobiology . hopefully , i 'd find someone in psychobiology who wanted to know more about mathematics . '' it could work . meanwhile , finding a volunteer 0 to write the computer program is n't a problem .