ortega ended a truce with the contras and said 0 elections were threatened . the nicaraguan president , citing attacks by the u.s.-backed rebels , suspended a 19-month-old cease-fire and accused bush of `` promoting death . '' while he reaffirmed support for the country 's feb. 25 elections , ortega indicated that renewed u.s. military aid to the contras could thwart the balloting . he said 0 u.s. assistance should be used to demobilize the rebels . a white house spokesman condemned the truce suspension as `` deplorable '' but brushed off talk of renewing military funding for the insurgents . the contra military command , in a statement from honduras , said 0 sandinista troops had launched a major offensive against the rebel forces . east german leader krenz called the protests in his country a `` good sign , '' saying that many of those marching for democratic freedoms were showing support for `` the renovation for socialism . '' the communist party chief , in moscow for talks with soviet officials , also said 0 east germany would follow gorbachev 's restructuring plans . thousands of east germans fled to czechoslovakia after the east berlin government lifted travel restrictions . the ban on cross-border movement was imposed last month after a massive exodus of emigres to west germany . also , a communist official for the first time said 0 the future of the berlin wall could be open to discussion . health officials plan to extend a moratorium on federal funding of research involving fetal-tissue transplants . the assistant hhs secretary said 0 the ban `` should be continued indefinitely . '' while researchers believe 0 such transplants could help treat diseases like alzheimer 's , anti-abortionists oppose the research . rep. dingell of michigan plans to unveil today a proposal that would break with bush 's clean-air bill on the issue of emissions that lead to acid rain . the democrat 's proposal is described by government sources and lobbyists as significantly weaker than the president 's plan to cut utility emissions . house-senate conferees approved major portions of a package for more than $ 500 million in economic aid for poland . the plan relies heavily on $ 240 million in credit and loan guarantees in fiscal 1990 in hopes of stimulating future trade and investment . south africa accused armed namibian nationalist guerrillas of crossing from bases in neighboring angola , violating u.n.-supervised peace plans for the territory 's independence from pretoria . south african troops were placed on alert . guerrilla leaders said 0 pretoria was attempting to sabotage next week 's elections in namibia . gunmen in lebanon assassinated a saudi arabian embassy employee , and the pro-iranian islamic jihad took responsibility for the slaying 0 to avenge the beheading of 16 terrorists by riyadh 's government in september . also in beirut , a moslem group vowed to kill americans if the u.s. implements a policy 0 to seize suspects abroad . nixon concluded five days of private talks with chinese leaders in beijing , but apparently failed to ease strains in sino-u.s. ties caused by china 's crackdown against pro-democracy protesters in june . beijing 's rulers complained to the former president about u.s. `` interference '' in china 's domestic affairs . mexico 's president salinas said 0 the country 's recession had ended and the economy was growing again . in his first state of the nation address , salinas pledged to continue his program of modernization and warned opposition politicians that impeding progress could cost them popular support . pakistan 's bhutto defeated the first no-confidence motion in the nation 's 42-year history , surviving the vote that could have brought down her 11-month-old government . the prime minister 's opponents claimed 0 the balloting , 12 votes short of a majority in islamabad 's 237-seat assembly , was rigged . the white house said 0 the shipboard meetings next month between bush and soviet leader gorbachev will take place in the waters off malta . the location was disclosed as the u.s. began planning the issues 0 to be discussed at the dec. 2-3 tete-a-tete . bush unveiled a package of trade initiatives 0 to help establish `` economic alternatives to drug trafficking '' in the andean nations of south america . the president 's plan includes a commitment to help negotiate a new international coffee agreement . pan am has subpoenaed several government agencies , including the cia and fbi , to determine whether they were warned that a bomb had been planted aboard a jet that exploded over scotland last december , killing 270 people . the airline is attempting to show that israel and west germany warned the u.s. about the impending attack . died : james a. attwood , 62 , retired chairman and president of mutual life insurance co. of new york , tuesday , in new york city , of an acute anemic condition .