when nucor corp. begins shipping steel from the world 's first thin-slab plant this month , it will begin testing the competitive mettle of its giant competitors . the new technology , which creates a very thin piece of steel , radically reduces the costs of making flat-rolled sheets . an ebullient kenneth iverson , nucor 's chairman , says 0 the company 's plant eventually will make a ton of steel in 1.5 man hours , compared with four to six man hours at a conventional mill . `` we 've had the russians and chinese , and people from india visiting us , '' mr. iverson beams . `` everyone in the world is watching us very closely . '' especially his neighbors , the major u.s. steelmakers . already , usx corp. and armco inc. are studying nucor 's technology to see if they can adopt it . says the chief executive officer of a major midwest steel company : `` it 's damn worrisome . '' the once-staid steel industry is about to be turned topsy-turvy by a 1990s technology revolution . new , efficient and sophisticated processes make it easier for smaller , less cash-rich companies to make steel at a fraction of what big steel paid decades ago . it also enables minimills finally to get a toehold in the flat-rolled steel market -- the major steelmakers ' largest , most prized , and until now , untouchable , market . but such thin-slab technology is only the beginning . eager engineers espouse direct-steelmaking and direct casting , which by the end of the 1990s will enable production without coke ovens and blast furnaces . those massive structures , while posing cost and environmental headaches , effectively locked out all but deep-pocketed giants from steelmaking . `` there 's a revolution ahead of us that will ultimately change the way 0 we market and distribute steel , '' says william dennis , vice president , manufacturing and technology , for the american iron ore and steel institute . it is n't that major steelmakers have blithely ignored high technology . in fact , they 've spent billions of dollars to boost the percentage of continously cast steel to 60.9 % in 1988 , from 39.6 % five years before . moreover , their balance sheets are rich with diversity , their old plants shuttered , and work forces lean . but that wo n't suffice . `` it 's no longer enough to beat the guy down the street . you have to beat everyone around the world , '' says mr. dennis . he wants to see steelmakers more involved in computers and artificial intelligence . the problem : they 're saddled with huge plants that require costly maintenance . and try plying new dollars free in a market that is softening , hurt by a strong dollar and concerned about overcapacity -- the industry 's darth vadar . `` the technology revolution is going to be very threatening to established producers , '' says peter marcus , an analyst with painewebber inc . `` they 've got too much invested in the old stuff and they ca n't get their workers to be flexible . '' no one expects minimills to eclipse major integrated steelmakers , who remain the undisputed kings of highest-quality steel used for autos and refrigerators . nucor 's plant in crawfordsville , ind. , ultimately will produce only one million tons annually , a drop in the 40-million-ton-a-year flat-rolled steel bucket , and it will be years before such plants can compete in the high-profit market . still , flat-rolled is the steel industry 's bread and butter , representing about half of the 80 million tons of steel expected to be shipped this year . moreover , the process is n't without its headaches . because all operations are connected , one equipment failure forces a complete plant shutdown . on some days , the nucor plant does n't produce anything . `` at this point , the minimill capacity wo n't make a great dent in the integrated market , but it does challenge them to develop new markets , '' says james mccall , vice president , materials , at battelle , a technology and management-research giant based in columbus , ohio . indeed , with demand for steel not growing fast enough to absorb capacity , steelmakers will have to change the way 0 they do business . in the past , says 0 armco 's chief economist john corey , steelmakers made a product and set it out on the loading dock . `` we said : ` we 've got a product : if you want it , you can buy it , ' '' he says , adding : `` now we 're figuring out what people need , and are going back to make it . '' armco 's sales representatives visit the general motors corp. 's fairfax assembly plant in kansas city , mo. , two or three days a week . when they determined that gm needed parts more quickly , armco convinced a steel service center to build a processing plant nearby so shipments could be delivered within 15 minutes . cementing such relationships with major clients -- car and appliance makers -- is a means of survival , especially when those key clients are relying on a smaller pool of producers and flirting with plastic and aluminum makers . for example , when detroit began talking about plastic-bodied cars , the american iron and steel institute began a major lobbying effort to show auto makers how they could use steel more efficiently by simply redesigning how a car door is assembled . but steelmakers must also find new markets . after letting aluminum-makers take the recycling lead , a group of the nation 's largest steelmakers started a recycling institute to promote steel cans to an environmentally conscious nation . battelle 's mr. mccall thinks 0 steelmakers should concentrate more on construction . weirton steel corp. , weirton , w. va. , for example , is touting to homeowners fashionable steel doors , with leaded glass inserts , as a secure and energy-efficient alternative to wooden or aluminum ones . other steelmakers envision steel roofs covering suburbia . still others are looking at overseas markets . usx is funneling drilling pipe to steel-hungry soviet union . this year , the nation 's largest steelmaker reactivated its overseas sales operation . producers also are trying to differentiate by concentrating on higher-profit output , such as coated and electrogalvanized products , which remain beyond the reach of minimills . almost all capital-improvement programs announced by major steelmakers within the past year involve building electrogalvanizing lines , used to produce steel for such products as household appliances and car doors . but unfortunately , that segment is much smaller than the bread-and-butter flat-rolled steel . `` it 's like everyone climbing out of the qe ii and getting into a lifeboat , '' says john jacobson , an analyst with aus consultants . `` after a while , someone has to go over the side . '' although he does n't expect any bankruptcies , he does see more plants being sold or closed . robert crandall , with the brookings institute , agrees . `` unless there is an enormous rate of economic growth or a further drop in the dollar , it 's unlikely that consumption of u.s. produced steel will grow sufficiently to offset the growth of minimills . '' not to mention the incursion of imports . japanese and european steelmakers , which have led the recent technology developments , are anxiously awaiting the lifting of trade restraints in 1992 . moreover , the u.s. can expect more competition from low-cost producing pacific rim and latin american countries . a taiwanese steelmaker recently announced plans to build a nucor-like plant . `` people think of the steel business as an old and mundane smokestack business , '' says mr. iverson . `` they 're dead wrong . '' \* usx , ltv , bethlehem , inland , armco , national steel \*\* projected