outside the white-walled headquarters of the socalled society of orange workers , all seems normal in south africa 's abnormal society . a pickup truck driven by a white farmer rumbles past with a load of black workers bouncing in the back . over at conradies , the general store , a black stock boy scurries to help an elderly white woman with her packages . down the street , a car pulls into the shell station and is surrounded by black attendants . but inside the white walls of the orange workers ' office -- just about the largest building in town , save for the dutch reformed church and the school -- south africa 's neat racial order is awry . a dozen white office workers fold newsletters and stuff them into envelopes . white women serve tea and coffee , and then wash the cups and saucers afterwards . white children empty the wastepaper baskets and squeegee the windows . there is n't a black worker in sight . not in the kitchen , or the storeroom or the book shop . `` if we want to have our own nation , then we must be willing to do all the work ourselves , '' says hendrik verwoerd jr. , son of the former prime minister and the leader of the orange workers , founded in 1980 . they do indeed want their own nation . the pillars of apartheid may be trembling in the rest of south africa , with johannesburg opening its public facilities to all races , blacks storming the all-white beaches of the cape and the government releasing seven leaders of the banned african national congress . but here in morgenzon , a sleepy town amid the corn fields of the eastern transvaal , the orange workers are holding the pillars steady . the orange workers -- who take their name from william of orange of the netherlands , a hero of the dutch-descended afrikaners -- believe that the solution to south africa 's racial problems is n't the abolition of apartheid , it 's the perfection of apartheid -- complete and total separation of the races . here , then , is where the orange workers have come to make apartheid 's last stand . their idea is to create a city , first , and then an entire nation -- without blacks . this may seem to be a preposterous and utterly futile effort in africa . and the fact that there are only 3,000 card-carrying orange workers may put them on the loony fringe . but their ideal of an afrikaner homeland , an all-white reserve 0 to be carved out of present-day south africa , is a mainstream desire of the right-wing , which embraces about one-third of the country 's five million whites . afrikaner philosophers and theologians have long ruminated on the need for a white homeland . the orange workers are just putting this preaching into practice . thus , farmer johan fischer , his t-shirt and jeans covered in grease , crawls around under his planter , tightening bolts and fixing dents . on almost every other farm in south africa , black workers do the repairs . but not here . mr. fischer plows his own fields , sows his own corn and sunflowers , and feeds his own sheep . over at the fiberglass factory , four white workers assemble water tanks on their own , and in their spare time they build townhouses across the road . on main street , alida verwoerd and her daughters look after the clothes and fabric shop , then hurry home to fix lunch for the rest of the family . down by the stream , a group of orange workers puts the finishing touches on a golf course . if whites want to play there by themselves , says 0 consulting engineer willem van heerden , whites should also build it by themselves . `` if we want to survive as a people , '' he says , `` we have to change our way of life . the afrikaner must end his reliance on others . '' in their quest to perfect apartheid , the orange workers have discovered a truth that most of privileged white south africa tries mightily to deny : the master ca n't become dependent on the slave and expect to remain master forever . `` if apartheid means 0 you want cheap black labor and all the comforts that go with it , but you also want to exclude the blacks from social and political integration , then these are two contradictions that ca n't go on forever , '' says mr. verwoerd . he is sitting in his living room , beneath a huge portrait of his late father , hendrik f. verwoerd , apartheid 's architect and south african prime minister from 1958 to 1966 . somewhere , the son sighs 0 , things went terribly wrong with apartheid ; today , whites even rely on blacks to police their separation . `` people took separate development as an opportunity to use black labor without ever getting rid of it . but my father meant it to mean real separation , '' says the son . the orange workers speak sincerely . `` we agree with world opinion that the status quo in south africa is morally wrong , '' says pieter bruwer , the orange workers ' chief scribe and pamphleteer . `` we must either integrate honestly or segregate honestly . '' morgenzon has long been a special domain of afrikanerdom . according to mr. verwoerd , the early afrikaner pioneers were the first people 0 to settle in the eastern transvaal , even before the blacks . then , when morgenzon was incorporated in 1908 , the farmer who owned the land stipulated that only whites could reside in town ; blacks could work there , but they had to leave at night . today , morgenzon is a town of 800 whites and two paved roads . weeds push up through the cracks in the sidewalks , and many houses and storefronts are empty . there are few factories and no mines . it was an ideal place for the orange workers to start their new nation , unencumbered by the demographics that have undermined apartheid elsewhere in south africa . so far , about 150 orange workers have moved here , spending nearly $ 1 million buying up property over the past three years . still , complete and total segregation remains elusive . just beyond the city limits is a shantytown of 2,000 blacks who are employed throughout the area . despite the orange workers ' intention to put them all out of work , they are in no hurry to leave . a young man called july -lrb- that 's when he was born -rrb- , who works at the railroad station just up the street from the orange workers office , points at the whitewalled building and says matter-of-factly , `` we 're not allowed in there , that 's all 0 i know . '' the 650-or-so local whites who are n't orange workers are more troubled . try as they might , they just ca n't conceive of life without black workers . `` impossible , impossible , '' say the conradies , an elderly couple who have run the general store for decades . `` we ca n't do without their help , '' says mrs. conradie . `` oh no . we need them and i thank god for them . '' over at the shell station , owner rudi van dyk , who doubles as morgenzon 's mayor , worries that the orange workers have made his town the laughingstock of the nation . `` what they want us to do just is n't practical , '' he says , noting that he employs 16 blacks . `` i could n't afford to hire 16 whites . the only afrikaners who would be willing to work for this salary would n't know how to handle money . '' back at the verwoerd house , hendrik sr. peers down over the shoulder of hendrik jr . the son believes that when the afrikaners finally realize 0 there is no turning back the integration of south african society and politics , morgenzon will boom . `` we urge our people not to wait until they have to fight for their own nation , '' says mr. verwoerd . `` by populating a place now , we make ourselves a power 0 any new government will have to take into account . '' curiously , he compares the orange workers to the anc , which his father outlawed in 1960 . `` the anc wo n't be stopped until there is a provision for black aspirations , '' says mr. verwoerd . `` likewise , no government will stop this idea of the afrikaners . '' he apologizes for sounding pushy . `` look , '' he says , `` if the rest of south africa wants to have an integrated melting pot , that 's their choice . we 'll leave them alone . we just want to have our own cup of tea . '' and they will even serve it themselves .