an earthquake struck northern california , killing more than 50 people . the violent temblor , which lasted about 15 seconds and registered 6.9 on the richter scale , also caused the collapse of a 30-foot section of the san francisco-oakland bay bridge and shook candlestick park . the tremor was centered near hollister , southeast of san francisco , and was felt as far as 200 miles away . numerous injuries were reported . some buildings collapsed , gas and water lines ruptured and fires raged . the quake , which also caused damage in san jose and berkeley , knocked out electricity and telephones , cracked roadways and disrupted subway service in the bay area . major injuries were n't reported at candlestick park , where the third game of baseball 's world series was canceled and fans evacuated from the stadium . bush vowed to veto a bill allowing federal financing for abortions in cases of rape and incest , saying 0 tax dollars should n't be used to `` compound a violent act with the taking of an unborn life . '' his pledge , in a letter to democratic sen. byrd , came ahead of an expected senate vote on spending legislation containing the provision . east germany 's politburo met amid speculation that the ruling body would oust hard-line leader honecker , whose rule has been challenged by mass emigration and calls for democratic freedoms . meanwhile , about 125 refugees flew to duesseldorf , west germany , from warsaw , the first airlift in east germany 's refugee exodus . the world psychiatric association voted at an athens parley to conditionally readmit the soviet union . moscow , which left the group in 1983 to avoid explusion over allegations that political dissidents were being certified as insane , could be suspended if the misuse of psychiatry against dissenters is discovered during a review within a year . nasa postponed the liftoff of the space shuttle atlantis because of rain near the site of the launch pad in cape canaveral , fla . the flight was rescheduled for today . the spacecraft 's five astronauts are to dispatch the nuclear-powered galileo space probe on an exploratory mission to jupiter . senate democratic leaders said 0 they had enough votes 0 to defeat a proposed constitutional amendment 0 to ban flag burning . the amendment is aimed at skirting a supreme court ruling that threw out the conviction of a texas flag-burner on grounds that his freedom of speech was violated . federal researchers said 0 lung-cancer mortality rates for people under 45 years of age have begun to decline , particularly for white males . the national cancer institute also projected that overall u.s. mortality rates from lung cancer should begin to drop in several years if cigarette smoking continues to abate . bush met with south korean president roh , who indicated that seoul plans to further ease trade rules to ensure that its economy becomes as open as the other industrialized nations by the mid-1990s . bush assured roh that the u.s. would stand by its security commitments `` as long as there is a threat '' from communist north korea . the bush administration is seeking an understanding with congress 0 to ease restrictions on u.s. involvement in foreign coups that might result in the death of a country 's leader . a white house spokesman said that while bush would n't alter a longstanding ban on such involvement , `` there 's a clarification needed '' on its interpretation . india 's gandhi called for parliamentary elections next month . the balloting , considered a test for the prime minister and the ruling congress -lrb- i -rrb- party , comes amid charges of inept leadership and government corruption . gandhi 's family has ruled independent india for all but five years of its 42-year history . the soviet union abstained from a u.n. general assembly vote 0 to reject israel 's credentials . it was the first time in seven years that moscow has n't joined efforts , led by moslem nations , 0 to expel israel from the world body , and was viewed as a sign of improving soviet-israeli ties . israel was seated by a vote of 95-37 , with 15 abstentions . black activist walter sisulu said 0 the african national congress would n't reject violence as a way 0 to pressure the south african government into concessions that might lead to negotiations over apartheid . the 77-year-old sisulu was among eight black political activists freed sunday from prison . london has concluded that austrian president waldheim was n't responsible for the execution of six british commandos in world war ii , although he probably was aware of the slayings . the report by the defense ministry also rejected allegations that britain covered up evidence of waldheim 's activities as a german army officer . an international group approved a formal ban on ivory trade despite objections from southern african governments , which threatened to find alternative channels for selling elephant tusks . the move by the convention on trade in endangered species , meeting in switzerland , places the elephant on the endangered-species list . an assassin in colombia killed a federal judge on a medellin street . an anonymous caller to a local radio station said 0 cocaine traffickers had slain the magistrate in retaliation for the extraditions of colombians wanted on drug charges in the u.s. . libyan leader gadhafi met with egypt 's president mubarak , and the two officials pledged to respect each other 's laws , security and stability . they stopped short of resuming diplomatic ties , severed in 1979 . the reconciliation talks in the libyan desert town of tobruk followed a meeting monday in the egyptian resort of mersa metruh .