this city is girding for gridlock today as hundreds of thousands of commuters avoid travel routes ravaged by last week 's earthquake . estimates of damage in the six-county san francisco bay area neared $ 5 billion , excluding the cost of repairing the region 's transportation system . the bay bridge , the main artery into san francisco from the east , will be closed for at least several weeks . part of the bridge collapsed in the quake , which registered 6.9 on the richter scale . the bridge normally carries 250,000 commuters a day . also , most of the ramps connecting the city to its main link to the south , the 101 freeway , have been closed for repairs . the bay area rapid transit system , which runs subway trains beneath the bay , is braced for a doubling of its daily regular ridership to 300,000 . bart has increased service to 24 hours a day in preparation for the onslaught . most unusual will be water-borne commuters from the east bay towns of oakland and berkeley . for the first time in 32 years , ferry service has been restored between the east bay and san francisco . the red and white fleet , which operates regular commuter ferry service to and from marin county , and tourist tours of the bay , is offering east bay commuters a chance to ride the waves for the price of $ 10 round-trip . that tariff is too stiff for some financial district wage earners . `` i 'll stay with bart , '' said one secretary , swallowing her fears about using the transbay tube . officials expect the golden gate bridge to be swamped with an extra load of commuters , including east bay residents making a long detour . `` we 're anticipating quite a traffic crunch , '' said one official . about 23,000 people typically travel over the golden gate bridge during commute hours . about 130,000 vehicles cross during a 24-hour period . meetings canceled by apple computer inc. 's european sales force and by other groups raised the specter of empty hotel rooms and restaurants . it also raised hackles of the city 's tourism boosters . `` other cities are calling -lcb- groups booked here for tours and conferences -rcb- and -- not to be crass -- stealing our booking list , '' said scott shafer , a spokesman for mayor art agnos . city officials stuck by their estimate of $ 2 billion in damage to the quake-shocked city . the other five bay area counties have increased their total damage estimates to $ 2.8 billion . all estimates exclude highway repair , which could exceed $ 1 billion . among the expensive unknowns are stretches of elevated freeway in san francisco that were closed because of quake-inflicted damage . the most worrisome stretch is 1.2 miles of waterfront highway known as the embarcadero freeway . until it was closed tuesday , it had provided the quickest series of exits for commuters from the bay bridge heading into the financial district . engineers say 0 it will take at least eight months to repair the embarcadero structure . as part of the quake recovery effort , the city building department has surveyed about 3,000 buildings , including all of the financial district 's high-rises . the preliminary conclusion from a survey of 200 downtown high-rises is that `` we were incredibly lucky , '' said lawrence kornfield , san francisco 's chief building inspector . while many of these buildings sustained heavy damage , little of that involved major structural damage . city building codes require construction that can resist temblors . in england , martin leach , a spokesman for lloyd 's of london , said 0 the insurance market has n't yet been able to estimate the total potential claims from the disaster . `` the extent of the claims wo n't be known for some time , '' mr. leach said . on friday , during a visit to california 0 to survey quake damage , president bush promised to `` meet the federal government 's obligation '' to assist relief efforts . california officials plan to ask congress for $ 3 billion or more of federal aid , in the form of grants and low-interest loans . the state has a $ 1 billion reserve , and is expected to add $ 1 billion to that fund in the next year . some of that money will be available for highway repair and special emergency aid , but members of the legislature are also mulling over a temporary state gasoline tax 0 to raise money for earthquake relief . however , state initiatives restrict the ability of the legislature to raise such taxes unless the voters approve in a statewide referendum . g. christian hill and ken wells contributed to this article .