one day after delmed inc. made top management changes and disclosed the end of an important business tie , its stock did n't trade and the company forecast a `` significant '' drop next year in sales of its core product . that disclosure came , a delmed spokeswoman said 0 , after the american stock exchange alerted the company that trading would n't resume in its stock until additional information about developments was provided . in addition to the forecast , the company also said 0 it is examining potential cost cuts and reductions in overhead . the spokeswoman said 0 the exchange would resume trading of delmed stock today . delmed , which makes and sells peritoneal dialysis products used in treating kidney disease , on tuesday announced the resignations of robert s. ehrlich , chairman , president and chief executive officer , and of leslie i. shapiro , chief operating officer and chief financial officer . they were succeeded by executives of fresenius usa inc. and its parent , fresenius ag , which owns about 45 % of delmed . at the same time , the new brunswick , n.j. , company said 0 negotiations about pricing and volumes of product had collapsed between it and its exclusive distributor in the u.s. , national medical care inc . following that announcement tuesday , however , company officials were unavailable to elaborate . yesterday , the spokeswoman said 0 sales of delmed products through the exclusive arrangement with national medical accounted for 87 % of delmed 's 1988 sales of $ 21.1 million . the current distribution arrangement ends in march 1990 , although delmed said 0 it will continue to provide some supplies of the peritoneal dialysis products to national medical , the spokeswoman said 0 . nonetheless , `` delmed currently expects that 1990 sales ... will be significantly below their 1989 level , '' the company said 0 in a statement . delmed said yesterday that fresenius usa would begin distributing the product and that the company is investigating other possible distribution channels . in any case , supplies to patients wo n't be interrupted , the company added 0 . fresenius , a west german pharmaceutical concern , has been discussing a transaction in which it would buy delmed stock for cash to bring its beneficial ownership to between 70 % and 80 % . the transaction also would combine fresenius usa and delmed . but the plan now is being `` reformulated , '' delmed said , declining to provide most of the new terms of the combination . said the spokeswoman : `` the whole structure has changed . the value of the company has changed . '' delmed did say that the proposal still would infuse cash into delmed but less than the $ 10 million originally expected . delmed also would receive the north american rights to certain fresenius ag products . another option for delmed , the company said 0 , is that it could sell its plant in ogden , utah . it added that no discussions about such a sale are under way .