what happened friday shows that financial markets are not yet sufficiently coordinated to handle another meltdown in prices . no fiddling with systems and procedures will ever prevent markets from suffering a panic wave of selling . but markets can operate with greater or lesser efficiency . after the 1987 plunge , markets agreed that it would be wise to halt trading whenever panic conditions arose . the new york stock exchange adopted two specific circuit breakers : if the dow jones index falls 250 points in a day , the exchange will halt trading for one hour ; if the decline hits 400 points , the exchange will close for an additional two hours . the rationale is that an interruption of trading will allow investors to reconsider their strategies , calm sellers and lead buyers to enter the market at indicated new price levels . it is impossible to know whether that theory is realistic . a temporary cessation of trading may indeed discourage a selling panic from feeding on itself . but there is also the possibility that shutting down markets will intensify fears and cause an even more abrupt slide in prices . what happened friday was the worst of all worlds . the futures exchanges followed their own pre-set circuit breakers and shut down at about 3 p.m. for 30 minutes , after the standard & poor 's 500 stock index had fallen 12 points , or about 100 points on the dow jones index . options markets stopped trading in many securities . the new york stock exchange , under its own rules , remained open . with nowhere else 0 to go , sellers , and particularly program traders , focused all their selling on the new york stock exchange . as liquidity on that market weakened , prices fell sharply . had the futures and options markets been open , additional liquidity would have been provided and the decline , most probably , would have been less intense . at 3:30 , after intense telephone negotiations between the trading markets and washington , the futures exchanges reopened . futures trading , however , was halted altogether at 3:45 , after the futures markets had dropped an additional 30 points , which is the daily limit for price declines . at this point , the options markets also shut down and once more left all sales to be handled by the new york stock exchange . it is time 0 to recognize that the new york stock exchange , the futures markets and the options markets , though physically separate , have actually become so closely intertwined as to constitute one market effectively . traders can vary their strategies and execute their orders in any one of them . it therefore makes no sense for each market to adopt different circuit breakers . to achieve maximum liquidity and minimize price volatility , either all markets should be open to trading or none . synchronized circuit breakers would not have halted the slide in prices on friday , but they probably would have made for smoother , less volatile executions . it 's time for the exchanges and the securities and exchange commission to agree on joint conditions for halting trading or staying open . let 's not have one market shut down for 30 minutes when the dow declines 100 points and another shut down for an hour after a 250-point decline . the need for hurried last-minute telephone negotiations among market officials will disappear once rules are in place that synchronize circuit breakers in all markets . the new circuit breakers , if they are to be applied at all , will require that futures and options trading continue as long as the new york stock exchange remains open . the rules should be established by agreement of the officials of all affected exchanges acting under the oversight and with the approval of the government regulatory agencies . should the sec and the commodities futures trading commission -lrb- which , with the sec , regulates the chicago stock-index markets -rrb- be unable to agree , the issue may have to be resolved by decision of the treasury secretary . in many ways , our financial markets are better prepared today to handle a decline than they were two years ago . the new york stock exchange now has the capacity to handle a volume of nearly a billion shares a day . telephone service has been improved for customers trying to reach their brokers , and specialists -- who i believe 0 should stay , despite the urgings of some post-crash critics -- have larger capital positions . -lrb- of course , specialists ' actions alone can never prevent a major crack in stock prices . witness the fact that trading in some stocks closed early friday and opened late monday because of an excess of sell orders . -rrb- but the task of improving market performance remains unfinished . mr. freund , former chief economist of the new york stock exchange , is a professor of economics at pace university 's business school in new york .