as competition heats up in spain 's crowded bank market , banco exterior de espana is seeking to shed its image of a state-owned bank and move into new activities . under the direction of its new chairman , francisco luzon , spain 's seventh largest bank is undergoing a tough restructuring that analysts say 0 may be the first step toward the bank 's privatization . the state-owned industrial holding company instituto nacional de industria and the bank of spain jointly hold a 13.94 % stake in banco exterior . the government directly owns 51.4 % and factorex , a financial services company , holds 8.42 % . the rest is listed on spanish stock exchanges . some analysts are concerned , however , that banco exterior may have waited too long to diversify from its traditional export-related activities . catching up with commercial competitors in retail banking and financial services , they argue 0 , will be difficult , particularly if market conditions turn sour . if that proves true , analysts say 0 banco exterior could be a prime partner -- or even a takeover target -- for either a spanish or foreign bank seeking to increase its market share after 1992 , when the european community plans to dismantle financial barriers . with 700 branches in spain and 12 banking subsidiaries , five branches and 12 representative offices abroad , the banco exterior group has a lot 0 to offer a potential suitor . mr. luzon and his team , however , say 0 they are n't interested in a merger . instead , they are working to transform banco exterior into an efficient bank by the end of 1992 . `` i want this to be a model of the way 0 a public-owned company should be run , '' mr. luzon says . banco exterior was created in 1929 to provide subsidized credits for spanish exports . the market for export financing was liberalized in the mid-1980s , however , forcing the bank to face competition . at the same time , many of spain 's traditional export markets in latin america and other developing areas faced a sharp decline in economic growth . as a result , the volume of banco exterior 's export credit portfolio plunged from 824 billion pesatas -lrb- $ 7.04 billion -rrb- as of dec. 31 , 1986 , to its current 522 billion pesetas . the other two main pillars of banco exterior 's traditional business -- wholesale banking and foreign currency trading -- also began to crumble under the weight of heavy competition and changing client needs . the bank was hamstrung in its efforts to face the challenges of a changing market by its links to the government , analysts say 0 . until mr. luzon took the helm last november , banco exterior was run by politicians who lacked either the skills or the will 0 to introduce innovative changes . but mr. luzon has moved swiftly to streamline bureaucracy , cut costs , increase capital and build up new areas of business . `` we 've got a lot 0 to do , '' he acknowledged . `` we 've got to move quickly . '' in mr. luzon 's first year , the bank eliminated 800 jobs . now it says 0 it 'll trim another 1,200 jobs over the next three to four years . the bank employs 8,000 people in spain and 2,000 abroad . to strengthen its capital base , banco exterior this year issued $ 105 million in subordinated debt , launched two rights issues and sold stock held in its treasury to small investors . the bank is now aggressively marketing retail services at its domestic branches . last year 's drop in export credit was partially offset by a 15 % surge in lending to individuals and small and medium-sized companies . though spain has an excess of banks , analysts say 0 the country still has one of the most profitable markets in europe , which will aid banco exterior with the tough tasks 0 it faces ahead . expansion plans also include acquisitions in growing foreign markets . the bank says 0 it 's interested in purchasing banks in morocco , portugal and puerto rico . but the bank 's retail activities in latin america are likely to be cut back . banco exterior was one of the last banks 0 to create a brokerage house before the four spanish stock exchanges underwent sweeping changes in july . the late start may be a handicap for the bank as spain continues to open up its market to foreign competition . but mr. luzon contends that the experienced team 0 he brought with him from banco bilbao vizcaya , where he was formerly director general , will whip the bank 's capital market division into shape by the end of 1992 . the bank also says 0 it 'll use its international network to channel investment from london , frankfurt , zurich and paris into the spanish stock exchanges .