if a hostile predator emerges for saatchi & saatchi co. , co-founders charles and maurice saatchi will lead a management buy-out attempt , an official close to the company said 0 . financing for any takeover attempt may be problematic in the wake of friday 's stock-market sell-off in new york and turmoil in the junk-bond market . but the beleaguered british advertising and consulting giant , which last week named a new chief executive officer 0 to replace maurice saatchi , has been the subject of intense takeover speculation for weeks . last week , saatchi 's largest shareholder , southeastern asset management , said 0 it had been approached by one or more third parties interested in a possible restructuring . and carl spielvogel , chief executive officer of saatchi 's big backer spielvogel bates advertising unit , said 0 he had offered to lead a management buy-out of the company , but was rebuffed by charles saatchi . mr. spielvogel said 0 he would n't launch a hostile bid . the executive close to saatchi & saatchi said that `` if a bidder came up with a ludicrously high offer , a crazy offer which saatchi knew 0 it could n't beat , it would have no choice but to recommend it to shareholders . but -lcb- otherwise -rcb- it would undoubtedly come back '' with an offer by management . the executive said 0 any buy-out would be led by the current board , whose chairman is maurice saatchi and whose strategic guiding force is believed to be charles saatchi . mr. spielvogel is n't part of the board , nor are any of the other heads of saatchi 's big u.s.-based ad agencies . the executive did n't name any price , but securities analysts have said 0 saatchi would fetch upward of $ 1.3 billion . the executive denied speculation that saatchi was bringing in the new chief executive officer only to clean up the company financially so that the brothers could lead a buy-back . that speculation abounded friday as industry executives analyzed the appointment of the new chief executive , robert louis-dreyfus , who joins saatchi and becomes a member of its board on jan. 1 . mr. louis-dreyfus , formerly chief executive of the pharmaceutical research firm ims international inc. , has a reputation as a savvy financial manager , and will be charged largely with repairing saatchi 's poor financial state . asked about the speculation that mr. louis-dreyfus has been hired to pave the way for a buy-out by the brothers , the executive replied , `` that is n't the reason 0 dreyfus has been brought in . he was brought in to turn around the company . '' separately , several saatchi agency clients said 0 they believe 0 the company 's management shakeup will have little affect on them . `` it has n't had any impact on us , nor do we expect it to , '' said a spokeswoman for miller brewing co. , a major client of backer spielvogel . john lampe , director of advertising at painewebber inc. , a saatchi & saatchi advertising client , said : 0 `` we have no problem with the announcement , because we do n't know what change it 's going to bring about . we are n't going to change agencies because of a change in london . '' executives at backer spielvogel client avis inc. , as well as at saatchi client philips lighting co. , also said 0 they saw no effect . executives at prudential-bache securities inc. , a backer spielvogel client that is reviewing its account , declined comment . mr. spielvogel had said that prudential-bache was prepared to finance either a management buy-out and restructuring , or a buy-out of backer spielvogel alone , led by him . ad notes ... . new account : california 's glendale federal bank awarded its $ 12 million to $ 15 million account to the los angeles office of omnicom group 's bbdo agency . the account was previously handled by davis , ball & colombatto advertising inc. , a los angeles agency . account review : royal crown cola co. has ended its relationship with the boston office of hill , holliday , connors , cosmopulos . the account had billed about $ 6 million in 1988 , according to leading national advertisers . not-guilty plea : as expected , young & rubicam inc. along with two senior executives and a former employee , pleaded not guilty in federal court in new haven , conn. , to conspiracy and racketeering charges . the government has charged that they bribed jamaican officials to win the jamaica tourist board ad account in 1981 . a spokesman for the u.s. attorney 's office said 0 extradition proceedings are `` just beginning '' for the other two defendants in the case , eric anthony abrahams , former jamaican tourism minister , and jamaican businessman arnold foote jr . korean agency : the samsung group and bozell inc. agreed to establish a joint venture advertising agency in south korea . bozell cheil corp. , as the new agency will be called , will be based in seoul and is 70 % owned by samsung and 30 % owned by bozell . samsung already owns korea first advertising co. , that country 's largest agency . bozell joins backer spielvogel bates and ogilvy group as u.s. agencies with interests in korean agencies .