crude prices spurted upward in brisk trading on the assumption that heavy earthquake damage occurred to san francisco area refinery complexes , but the rise quickly fizzled when it became apparent that oil operations were n't severely curtailed . trading on little specific information , market players overnight in tokyo began bidding up oil prices . the rally spread into european markets , where traders were still betting that the earthquake disrupted the san francisco area 's large oil refining plants . by yesterday morning , much of the world was still unable to reach san francisco by telephone . west texas intermediate was bid up more than 20 cents a barrel in many overseas markets . at the opening of the new york mercantile exchange , west texas intermediate for november delivery shot up 10 cents a barrel , to $ 20.85 , still on the belief that the refineries were damaged . in the san francisco area , roughly 800,000 barrels a day of crude , about a third of all the refining capacity in california , is processed daily , according to industry data . for more than the past year , even the rumor of a major west coast refinery shutdown has been enough to spark a futures rally because the gasoline market is so tight . but yesterday , as the morning wore on , some major west coast refinery operators -- including chevron corp. , exxon corp. and the shell oil co. unit of royal dutch\/shell group -- said 0 their refineries were n't damaged and were continuing to operate normally . most said 0 they shut down their petroleum pipeline operations as a precaution but did n't see any immediate damage . gasoline terminals were also largely unhurt , they said 0 . `` it 's hard to imagine how the markets were speculating , given that nobody could get through to san francisco , '' said one amazed oil company executive . as the news spread that the refineries were intact , crude prices plunged , ending the day at $ 20.56 a barrel , down 19 cents . gasoline for november delivery was off 1.26 cents a gallon to 54.58 cents . heating oil finished at 60.6 cents , down 0.45 cent . `` the market was basically acting on two contradictory forces , '' said nauman barakat of shearson lehman hutton inc . `` one is the panic , the earthquake in san francisco , which is positive . '' but once that factor was eliminated , traders took profits and focused on crude oil inventories , mr. barakat said 0 . after the market closed tuesday , the american petroleum institute had reported that crude stocks increased by 5.7 million barrels in the week ended friday , which traders viewed as bearish . but some market players still think 0 earthquake speculation could have more impact on the oil markets . `` the problem is that while on the surface everything is all right , the question is , '' said mr. barakat , `` was there any structural damage to the pipelines or anything else . '' in other commodity markets yesterday : copper : futures prices eased on indications of improvement in the industry 's labor situation . the december contract declined 1.85 cents a pound to $ 1.2645 . according to one analyst , workers at the cananea copper mine in mexico , which has n't been operating since it was declared bankrupt by the mexican government in late august , are set to return to work . the analyst said 0 it will take about two to three months before the mine begins to produce copper in significant quantities . he added that , while there has n't been any official announcement as yet , the highland valley mine strike in british columbia , which has lasted more than three months , is regarded as settled . another analyst said 0 the cananea return to operation may not be as near as some expect 0 . `` there are still negotiations taking place on whether there will be a loss of jobs , which has been a critical issue all along , '' he said . nevertheless , the increasing likelihood that these two major supply disruptions will be resolved weighed on the market , the analysts agreed 0 . both of these mines are normally major suppliers of copper to japan , which has been buying copper on the world market . the first analyst said that the japanese , as well as the chinese , bought copper earlier in the week in london , but that this purchasing has since slackened as the supply situation , at least over the long term , appears to have improved . `` the focus for some time has been on the copper supply , and good demand has been taken for granted , '' he said . `` now that the supply situation seems to be improving , it would be best for traders to switch their concentration to the demand side . '' he noted the commerce department report yesterday that housing starts in september dropped 5.2 % from august to 1.26 million units on an annualized basis , the lowest level in seven years . `` along with these factors , other economic reports suggest a slowing of the economy , which could mean reduced copper usage , '' he said . sugar : futures prices extended tuesday 's gains . the march delivery ended with an advance of 0.16 cent a pound to 14.27 cents , for a two-day gain of 0.3 cent . according to one dealer , japan said 0 it has only 40,000 tons of sugar remaining to be shipped to it this year by cuba under current commitments . the announcement was made because of reports tuesday that cuba would delay shipments to japan scheduled for later this year , into early next year . the dealer said 0 the quantity mentioned in the japanese announcement is so small that it 's meaningless . one analyst said 0 he thought 0 the market continued to be supported to some degree by a delay in the cuban sugar harvest caused by adverse weather . the dealer said 0 india might be the real factor that is keeping futures prices firm . that country recently bought 200,000 tons of sugar and had been expected to seek a like quantity last week but did n't . `` it 's known 0 they need the sugar , and the expectation that they will come in is apparently giving the market its principal support , '' the dealer said . livestock and meats : the agriculture department is expected to announce tomorrow that the number of cattle in the 13 major ranch states slipped 4 % to 8.21 million on oct. 1 compared with the level a year earlier , said 0 tom morgan , president of sterling research corp. , arlington heights , ill . cattle prices have risen in recent weeks on speculation that the government 's quarterly report will signal tighter supplies of beef . among other things , the government is expected to report that the number of young cattle placed on feedlots during the quarter slipped 3 % . feedlots fatten cattle for slaughter , so a drop indicates that the production of beef will dip this winter . indeed , some analysts expect the government to report that the movement of young cattle onto feedlots in the month of september in seven big ranch states dropped 8 % compared with the level for september 1988 .