some of america 's biggest trading partners gave a quick thumbs-down to a u.s. proposal to liberalize world trade and reduce farm-product subsidies . in geneva , where world trade talks are being held under the general agreement on tariffs and trade , or gatt , the european community called the u.s. proposal `` a step backward . '' and japan 's minister of agriculture , forestry and fisheries told a committee of japan 's parliament that washington 's proposal was impractical and that tokyo would continue to heavily subsidize its rice farmers . the u.s. , in a far-reaching plan submitted to the geneva meeting tuesday , proposed curbing price support subsidies within 10 years and eliminating export subsidies within five years . u.s. officials said 0 the plan was flexible , and was intended as a pragmatic approach for gradually removing trade-distorting subsidies . but the ec reacted defiantly , arguing that the proposal 's main aim is to destroy the common agricultural policy , the ec 's $ 28 billion-a-year price support program . `` the american proposal is not an adequate basis for negotiation , '' the ec said in a statement . ec officials say 0 they are irked that the u.s. has set a specific timetable and is insisting on the `` elimination '' of export subsides , not just reduction . ec agriculture commissioner ray macsharry said 0 the u.s. plan `` calls into question '' the agreement reached by world negotiators last april in geneva seeking `` substantial progressive reductions in agricultural support and protection . '' u.s. deputy trade representative jules katz replied that the proposal was entirely consistent with the april accord . he said 0 he was surprised by the ec 's reaction , calling it `` vehement , even frenetic . '' the u.s. proposal also was criticized by food-importing developing countries , who said that the u.s. made no special allowances for poor nations . while many experts argue that food-importing nations would eventually become self-sufficient in a free-market system , the poorest nations are likely to need help in the meantime . ambassador katz said 0 the u.s. was open to discussing particular problems of developing countries . the u.s. administration said 0 its plan would allow considerable flexibility in determining how and when the free-trade goals would be achieved . the u.s. argues that its plan would ease the transition to freer agriculture trade by converting certain non-tariff barriers into tariffs that , together with existing tariffs , then would be phased out over 10 years . but the ec is strongly opposed to converting agricultural supports into tariffs . the new u.s. package also says 0 countries could temporarily raise tariffs on certain products if they experience an unusually heavy volume of imports . it would establish procedures 0 to prevent countries from using health and sanitation rules to impede trade arbitrarily . seeking to allay european concerns , u.s. agriculture secretary clayton yeutter said in washington that the new u.s. plan would n't `` put farmers out of business '' but would encourage them to `` grow what the markets desire instead of what the government wants . '' the ec , with a population of 320 million , has 8.5 million farmers , while the u.s. , with a population of about 245 million , has only two million farmers . japan 's objections to the u.s. plan center around its desire to stay self-sufficient in rice , a staple food , even though foreign producers are far more efficient .