right away you notice the following things about a philip glass concert . it attracts people with funny hair -lrb- or with no hair -- in front of me a girl with spiked locks sat beside a boy who had shaved his -rrb- . whoever constitute the local left bank come out in force , dressed in black , along with a smattering of yuppies who want to be on the cutting edge . people in glass houses tend to look stoned . and , if still conscious at the evening 's end , you notice something else : the audience , at first entranced and hypnotized by the music , releases its pent-up feelings in collective gratitude . currently in the middle of a four-week , 20-city tour as a solo pianist , mr. glass has left behind his synthesizers , equipment and collaborators in favor of going it alone . he sits down at the piano and plays . and plays . either one likes it or one does n't . the typical glass audience , which is more likely to be composed of music students than their teachers , certainly does . the work , though , sounds like muzak for spaceships . philip glass is the emperor , and his music the new clothes , of the avant-garde . his success is easy 0 to understand . softly introducing and explaining his pieces , mr. glass looks and sounds more like a shaggy poet describing his work than a classical pianist playing a recital . the piano compositions , which have been labeled variously as minimalist , oriental , repetitive , cyclical , monophonic and hypnotic , are relentlessly tonal -lrb- therefore unthreatening -rrb- , unvaryingly rhythmic -lrb- therefore soporific -rrb- , and unflaggingly harmonious but unmelodic -lrb- therefore both pretty and unconventional -rrb- . it is music for people who want to hear something different but do n't want to work especially hard at the task . it is e-z listening for the now generation . mr. glass has inverted the famous modernist dictum `` less is more . '' his more is always less . far from being minimalist , the music unabatingly torments us with apparent novelties not so cleverly disguised in the simplicities of 4\/4 time , octave intervals , and ragtime or gospel chord progressions . but the music has its charm , and mr. glass has constructed his solo program around a move from the simple to the relatively complex . `` opening '' -lrb- 1981 -rrb- , from glassworks , introduces the audience to the glass technique : never straying too far from the piano 's center , mr. glass works in the two octaves on either side of middle c , and his fingers seldom leave the keys . there is a recognizable musical style here , but not a particular performance style . the music is not especially pianistic ; indeed , it 's hard to imagine a bad performance of it . nothing bravura , no arpeggios , no ticklish fingering problems challenge the performer . we hear , we may think , inner voices , but they all seem to be saying the same thing . with `` planet news , '' music meant to accompany readings of allen ginsberg 's `` wichita vortex sutra , '' mr. glass gets going . his hands sit farther apart on the keyboard . seventh chords make you feel as though he may break into a -lrb- very slow -rrb- improvisatory riff . the chords modulate , but there is little filigree even though his fingers begin to wander over more of the keys . contrasts predictably accumulate : first the music is loud , then it becomes soft , then -lrb- you realize -rrb- it becomes louder again . `` the fourth knee play , '' an interlude from `` einstein on the beach , '' is like a toccata but it does n't seem to move much beyond its left-hand ground in `` three blind mice . '' when mr. glass decides to get really fancy , he crosses his hands and hits a resonant bass note with his right hand . he does this in at least three of his solo pieces . you might call it a leitmotif or a virtuoso accomplishment . in `` mad rush , '' which came from a commission to write a piece of indeterminate length -lrb- mr. glass charmingly , and tellingly , confessed that `` this was no problem for me '' -rrb- , an a section alternates with a b section several times before the piece ends unresolved . not only is the typical glasswork open-ended , it is also often multiple in its context -lrb- s -rrb- . `` mad rush '' began its life as the accompaniment to the dalai lama 's first public address in the u.s. , when mr. glass played it on the organ at new york 's cathedral of st. john the divine . later it was performed on radio bremen in germany , and then lucinda childs took it for one of her dance pieces . the point is that any piece can be used as background music for virtually anything . the evening ended with mr. glass 's `` metamorphosis , '' another multiple work . parts 1 , 2 , and 5 come from the soundtrack of errol morris 's acclaimed film , `` the thin blue line , '' and the two other parts from incidental music to two separate dramatizations of the kafka story of the same name . when used as background in this way , the music has an appropriate eeriness , as when a two-note phrase , a descending minor third , accompanies the seemingly endless litany of reports , interviews and confessions of witnesses in the morris film . served up as a solo , however , the music lacks the resonance provided by a context within another medium . admirers of mr. glass may agree with the critic richard kostelanetz 's sense that the 1974 `` music in twelve parts '' is as encyclopedic and weighty as `` the well-tempered clavier . '' but while making the obvious point that both composers develop variations from themes , this comparison ignores the intensely claustrophobic nature of mr. glass 's music . its supposedly austere minimalism overlays a bombast that makes one yearn for the astringency of neoclassical stravinsky , the genuinely radical minimalism of berg and webern , and what in retrospect even seems like concision in mahler . mr. spiegelman is professor of english at southern methodist university and editor of the southwest review .