bethlehem steel corp. has agreed in principle to form a joint venture with the world 's second-largest steelmaker , usinor-sacilor of france , to modernize a portion of bethlehem 's ailing bethforge division . the venture , which involves adding sophisticated equipment 0 to make cast-iron mill rolls , is part of a two-pronged effort 0 to shore up a division that has posted continuing operating losses for several years . the other element includes consolidating bethforge 's press-forge operations . the entire division employs about 850 workers . while the joint venture affects only a small part of bethlehem 's operations , it is significant because it marks the first time 0 the nation 's no. 2 steelmaker has joined forces with a foreign partner . wall street analysts have criticized bethlehem for not following its major competitors in linking with a foreign company to share costs and provide technology 0 to modernize old facilities or build new ones . `` we think 0 it 's a step in the right direction for bethlehem , '' said felix bello , wefa group 's international steel analyst . `` it 's important to share the risk and even more so when the market has already peaked . '' he said 0 the move could be the beginning of a broader relationship between the two companies , one that could open up new markets for bethlehem . bethlehem had little choice but to go with a european steelmaker , because its competitors already have tapped the japanese and south korean industry leaders , analysts noted 0 . under terms of the agreement , usinor 's chavanne-ketin unit and bethlehem would establish a modernized facility 0 to make cast-iron mill rolls at the company 's cast-iron shop here . terms for the venture , which would be jointly owned by both companies , were n't disclosed . the usinor unit has agreed to provide technology and expertise to install a so-called spin caster by early next fall . the caster improves the metallurgical quality of the iron mill rolls , which are basically huge rolling pins used to flatten or shape steel products . bethlehem is also working with the united steelworkers union to consolidate bethforge 's two machine shops and four heat-treatment facilities of the press-forge operations . once the consolidation is complete , bethlehem plans to concentrate its forgings business on nuclear fabrication , hardened steel and large-diameter steel rolls for rolling mills and selected custom-die applications . bethlehem said earlier this year that it planned to restructure the bethforge division to improve its cost structure . in the second quarter , bethlehem posted a $ 50 million charge related to its plans to realign the division .