wall street , shake hands with george orwell . the author of the futuristic novel `` 1984 '' invented a language called newspeak that made it impossible to fully develop a heretical thought -- that is , anything negative about the policies and practices of the state . wall street has n't gotten that far yet , but it has made a promising start . its language -- call it streetspeak -- is increasingly mellifluous , reassuring , and designed to make financial products and maneuvers appear better , safer or cheaper than they really are . when something undeniably nasty happens , a few euphemisms are deployed to simply make it disappear , much as a fresh grave may be covered by a blanket of flowers . for example , we 'll bet 0 you thought that the stock market crashed two years ago . wrong . according to some of the grand panjandrums of the market , it never happened . in their lexicon the 508-point collapse in the dow jones industrial average on oct. 19 , 1987 , was just a big blip . trotting out a much-beloved streetspeak term , new york stock exchange chairman john phelan recently declared that history would record the event as only `` a major technical correction . '' -lrb- another much-beloved saying , however , this one in plain english , holds that if something walks like a duck and quacks like a duck , it is a duck . on oct. 29 , 1929 -- a date 0 historians stubbornly insist on associating with the dreaded c-word -- the dj industrials fell 12.8 % . in the `` technical correction '' of two years ago , they lost a whopping 22.6 % . -rrb- customers hear a lot of this stuff from people who try to sell them stock . these people used to be called brokers , but apparently this word either is not grandiose enough or carries too many negative connotations from the aforementioned technical correction , when terrified customers could n't raise brokers on the phone . either way , the word `` broker '' is clearly out of favor . of the major new york-based securities firms , only morgan stanley & co. still calls its salespeople brokers . at merrill lynch & co. and shearson lehman hutton inc. , they are `` financial consultants . '' at drexel burnham lambert inc. , prudential bache securities , and dean witter reynolds inc. , they are `` account executives . '' at painewebber inc. , they are `` investment executives . '' such titles are designed to convey a sense of dignified , broad-scale competence and expertise in selling today 's myriad financial products . it is a competence and expertise that some brokers themselves , overwhelmed by all the new things being dreamed up 0 for them to peddle , do n't feel . `` it s almost product de jour , '' grouses one account executive at dean witter . the transmogrified brokers never let the c-word cross their lips , instead stressing such terms as `` safe , '' `` insured '' and `` guaranteed '' -- even though these terms may be severely limited in their application to a particular new financial product . the names of some of these products do n't suggest the risk involved in buying them , either . a case in point : `` government-plus '' bond funds . what could imply more safety than investing in government bonds ? what could be better than getting a tad more income from them -lrb- the plus -rrb- than other people ? indeed , conservative investors , many of them elderly , have poured more than $ 50 billion into such funds , which promise fatter yields than ordinary treasury bonds -- only to learn later that these funds use part of their money to dabble in high-risk bond options , a gambler 's game . when a certain class of investment performs so poorly that its reputation is tarnished , look for wall street to give it a new moniker . this seems to be happening now to limited partnerships , many of which either have gone into the tank in recent years or have otherwise been grievous disappointments . they are still being sold , but more and more often as `` direct investments '' -- with all the same risks 0 they had under the old label . in such cases , the game has n't changed , only the name . in others a familiar old name still prevails , but the underlying game has changed . for example , `` no load '' mutual funds remain a favorite with investors because they do n't carry a frontend sales commission . getting out of them , however , may be a different story now . traditional no-loads made their money by charging an annual management fee , usually a modest one ; they imposed no other fees , and many still do n't . in recent years , though , a passel of others flying the no-load flag have been imposing hefty charges -- all the way up to 6 % -- when an investor sells his shares . should n't they properly be called exit-load funds ? the mutual-fund industry is debating the question , but do n't expect a new name while the old one is working so well . and do n't expect anyone to change the term `` blue chip , '' either , even though some of the companies that still enjoy the title may be riskier investments than they were . american telephone & telegraph co. , for one , is still a favorite of widows , orphans and trust departments -- but shorn of its regional telephone units and exposed to competition on every side , it is a far different investment prospect than it was before divestiture . also , blue chips in general have suffered much more short-term price volatility in recent years . larry biehl , a money manager in san mateo , calif. , blames that on the advent of program trading , in which computers used by big institutional investors are programmed to buy and sell big blocks when certain market conditions prevail . blue chips , he says 0 , `` are now being referred to as poker chips . '' finally , even the time-honored strategy called `` value investing '' no longer means what it once did . before the takeover mania of the '80s , it referred to rooting out through analysis undervalued stocks , especially those with shrewd management , sound fundamentals and decent prospects . now , says 0 mr. biehl , value investing often means `` looking for downtrodden companies with terrible management that are in real trouble . '' to institutional investors or brokers , he adds 0 , a company with value is a company at risk of being swallowed up . ms. bettner covers personal finance from the wall street journal 's los angeles bureau .