maggie thatcher must be doing something right ; her political enemies are screaming louder than ever . mrs. thatcher , who was practicing the read-my-lips school of politics years before mr. bush encountered it , has made clear her opposition to refashioning britain 's free-market policies to suit the bureaucrats in brussels . in return , mrs. thatcher is excoriated from fleet street to paris as an obstructionist . well , it now turns out that mrs. thatcher had to travel across the globe to the 49-member commonwealth summit in kuala lumpur to discomfit the holy order of consensus builders . `` a disastrous farce in malaysia , '' screamed the manchester guardian . `` she can no longer be trusted to behave in a civilised -- that is unflaky -- fashion when abroad . '' egad . canada 's brian mulroney and australia 's bob hawke , the paper said 0 , were `` enraged . '' the london times said 0 she had `` contravened protocol . '' as usual , her sin was saying what she thought . she issued a separate statement , separating herself from a commonwealth document reasserting the political value of imposing sanctions against south africa . while supporting the commonwealth `` in utterly condemning apartheid , '' her statement urged it to `` encourage change '' rather than inflict further punishment on the country 's black population . actually there is a consensus somewhere on sanctions : in may a gallup poll found that most south african blacks , 85 % , oppose economic sanctions . still , mrs. thatcher had once again gone against the grain . malaysia 's prime minister mahathir mohamad sniffed , `` if everybody else puts out their left foot and you put out your right foot , you are out of step . '' mrs. thatcher : `` if it 's one against 48 , i 'm very sorry for the 48 . '' if indeed mrs. thatcher has one opponent that could throw her off political course it is britain 's mysteriously intractable inflation problem . we can not , however , join the political chorus that as one proclaims how offputting it is that mrs. thatcher refuses to get along by going along . it is refreshing to see at least one world figure who knows what she believes in and is not inclined to reflexively compromise those beliefs . perhaps mrs. thatcher understands better than those distressed at her style that ultimately history and britain 's voters will decide who is right about europe , sanctioning south africa or running britain 's economy .