it can be hoped that spanish prime minister felipe gonzalez will draw the right conclusion from his narrow election victory sunday . a strong challenge from the far left , the communist coalition izquierda unida , failed to topple him . he should consider his victory a mandate to continue his growth-oriented economic reforms and not a demand that he move further left . if he follows the correct path , he may be able to look back on this election as the high-water mark of far-left opposition . the far left had some good issues even if it did not have good programs for dealing with them . it could point to plenty of ailments that the spanish economic rejuvenation so far has failed to cure . unemployment still is officially recorded at 16.5 % , the highest rate in europe , although actual joblessness may be lower . housing is scarce and public services -- the court system , schools , mail service , telephone network and the highways -- are in disgraceful condition . large pockets of poverty still exist . the left also is critical of the style of the socialist government -- a remarkable parallel to the situation in britain . mr. gonzalez and his colleagues , particularly the finance minister , carlos solchaga , are charged with having abandoned their socialist principles and with having become arrogant elitists who refuse even to go on television -lrb- controlled by the state -rrb- to face their accusers . in response to this , the socialist prime minister has simply cited his free-market accomplishments . they are very considerable : since 1986 , when spain joined the european community , its gross domestic product has grown at an annual average of 4.6 % -- the fastest in the ec . in that time more than 1.2 million jobs have been created and the official jobless rate has been pushed below 17 % from 21 % . a 14 % inflation rate dropped below 5 % . net foreign investment through august this year has been running at a pace of $ 12.5 billion , about double the year-earlier rate . mr. gonzalez also has split with the left in reaffirming spain 's nato commitment and in renewing a defense treaty with the u.s. . mr. gonzalez is not quite a closet supply-side revolutionary , however . he did not go as far as he could have in tax reductions ; indeed he combined them with increases in indirect taxes . yet the best 0 the far-left could do was not enough to deter the biggest voting bloc -- nearly 40 % -- from endorsing the direction 0 spain is taking . now he can go further . he should do more to reduce tax rates on wealth and income , in recognition of the fact that those cuts yield higher , not lower , revenues . he could do more to cut public subsidies and transfers , thus making funds available for public services starved of money for six years . the voters delivered mr. gonzalez a third mandate for his successes . they , as well as numerous latin american and east european countries that hope to adopt elements of the spanish model , are supporting the direction 0 spain is taking . it would be sad for mr. gonzalez to abandon them to appease his foes .