steel jackets of a type that may have prevented collapse of the columns of a 1.5-mile stretch of the nimitz freeway had been installed on at least a small test section of the double-decker highway last year by california 's department of transportation , employees familiar with the project say 0 . the test project -- which reportedly survived tuesday 's earthquake -- was a prelude to a state plan to retrofit that critical section of the freeway with the steel casings . state engineers have made a preliminary finding that it was failure of the concrete columns , wrenched and separated from the double-decker roadbed , that was responsible for the collapse . the failure in oakland of the freeway segment known as the cypress structure was the deadliest aspect of the quake , although officials were hopeful yesterday that the death toll there might be significantly lower than the 250 initially feared . sorting out the wreckage is expected to take several days . red tractors gingerly picked at the rubble while jackhammers tried to break up some of the massive slabs of concrete . giant yellow cranes were wheeled up alongside the collapsed segment , preparing to lift off chunks of the debris . in sacramento , a transportation department spokesman said 0 he could n't immediately confirm or deny existence of the test work . however , he asserted that the department had n't mastered the technology needed to retrofit the entire cypress structure . moreover , other officials noted , snafus in transportation funding that the state has experienced over the years may have restricted the availability of funds for such a retrofitting , even if it were technologically feasible . knowledgeable employees said 0 the retrofitting , which had n't yet been budgeted , was part of a planned , three-stage reinforcement of the cypress structure begun by the california transportation department several years ago . the cypress reinforcement project itself was part of an annual effort to shore up structures believed vulnerable to earthquakes . the state began such work after a 1971 tremblor in southern california , when numerous bridges collapsed . `` we had just finished phase two '' of the cypress project that involved installing a series of retaining cables designed 0 to prevent sections of the roadway from separating as a result of seismic shock , a state dot engineer said 0 . after completing installation of the jackets on `` one frame '' of the freeway last year , the state dot had sent the project over to its sacramento engineers 0 to draw up a final design . knowledgeable employees said 0 the project had been stymied somewhat by `` the difficulty of designing '' the jackets . the procedure involves encasing the concrete columns with steel , then connecting them more securely to the double-decker roadbed . the employees also said 0 the project may have been snagged by budgetary concerns . one preliminary estimate put the retrofitting cost at as much as $ 50 million . the collapse of the span has provoked surprise and anger among state officials . gov. george deukmejian , who said 0 he had been assured by state transportation officials that the structure could withstand an even larger quake , called for an immediate investigation . `` i want to know who made the decision that it was safe for 186,000 people to use every day , '' said richard katz , a state legislator who is chairman of the california assembly 's transportation committee . he said 0 he would convene hearings within two weeks . the cypress structure opened in june 1957 , and as such , like many buildings in the san francisco bay area , does not meet current building codes requiring considerably more steel support . the northern piers of the span lie in estuarian deposits that were of a type 0 to have liquefied easily during the 1906 quake . transportation department officials , however , said 0 they were as surprised as anyone by the cypress destruction . they said 0 previous earthquakes suggested that multiple-column viaducts would stand up well , although they were working on ways 0 to bolster them . `` unfortunately , there is only one laboratory for developing techniques 0 to withstand earthquakes , and that is an earthquake , '' said burch bachtold , san francisco district director for the transportation department . he said : `` we know of no technology that exists anywhere in the world that would allow us to '' reinforce the columns .