in a stunning shift in direction , provigo inc. said 0 it will sell all its non-food operations to concentrate solely on its retail and wholesale grocery business . the non-food operations accounted for about 27 % of provigo 's 7.38 billion canadian dollars -lrb- us$ 6.3 billion -rrb- in sales in the latest fiscal year . in a related move , pierre lortie , chairman and chief executive , resigned . mr. lortie joined provigo in 1985 and spearheaded the company 's drive to grow outside its traditional food business . he could n't be reached for comment . bertin nadeau , newly appointed chairman and interim chief executive of provigo , would n't say if mr. lortie was asked to leave . `` mr. lortie felt less pertinent , '' mr. nadeau said 0 , given the decision to dump provigo 's non-food operations . `` at this stage it was felt 0 i was perhaps more pertinent as chief executive . '' mr. nadeau also is chairman and chief executive of unigesco inc. , provigo 's controlling shareholder . at a news conference , mr. nadeau said 0 the sale of the three non-food businesses , which account for nearly half the company 's c$ 900 million in assets , should be completed in a `` matter of months . '' the three units are a nationwide pharmaceutical and health-products distributor , a small sporting-goods chain , and a combination catalog showroom and toy-store chain . investors and analysts applauded the news . provigo was the most active industrial stock on the montreal exchange , where it closed at c$ 9.75 -lrb- us$ 8.32 -rrb- , up 75 canadian cents . `` i think 0 it 's a pretty positive development , '' said ross cowan , a financial analyst with levesque beaubien geoffrion inc. , of the decision to concentrate on groceries . mr. lortie 's departure , while sudden , was seen as inevitable in light of the shift in strategy . `` the non-food operations were largely mr. lortie 's creation -lcb- and -rcb- his strategy did n't work , '' said steven holt , a financial analyst with midland doherty ltd . provigo 's profit record over the past two years tarnished the company 's and mr. lortie 's reputations . for the six months ended aug. 12 , provigo posted net income of c$ 6.5 million , or eight canadian cents a share , compared with c$ 18.1 million , or 21 canadian cents a share , a year earlier . sales were c$ 4.2 billion compared with c$ 3.7 billion . last month , canadian bond rating service downgraded provigo 's commercial paper and debentures because of its lackluster performance . analysts are skeptical 0 provigo will be able to sell the non-food businesses as a group for at least book value , and are expecting write-downs . mr. nadeau said 0 he could n't yet say if the sale prices would match book values . he said 0 all three non-food operations are profitable . mr. nadeau said 0 discussions are under way with potential purchasers of each of the units . he declined to confirm or deny reports that provigo executive henri roy is trying to put together a management buy-out of the catalogue showroom unit . mr. roy could n't be reached . yvon bussieres was named senior executive vice president and chief operating officer of provigo , a new position . mr. bussieres was president and chief operating officer of provigo 's quebec retail and wholesale grocery unit . mr. nadeau said 0 he intends to remain provigo 's chief executive only until the non-food businesses are sold , after a which a new chief executive will be named .