consumers may want to move their telephones a little closer to the tv set . couch-potato jocks watching abc 's `` monday night football '' can now vote during halftime for the greatest play in 20 years from among four or five filmed replays . two weeks ago , viewers of several nbc daytime consumer segments started calling a 900 number for advice on various life-style issues . and the new syndicated `` reality '' show `` hard copy '' records viewers ' opinions for possible airing on the next day 's show . interactive telephone technology has taken a new leap in sophistication , and television programmers are racing to exploit the possibilities . eventually viewers may grow bored with the technology and resent the cost . but right now programmers are figuring that viewers who are busy dialing up a range of services may put down their remote control zappers and stay tuned . `` we 've been spending a lot of time in los angeles talking to tv production people , '' says mike parks , president of call interactive , which supplied technology for both abc sports and nbc 's consumer minutes . `` with the competitiveness of the television market these days , everyone is looking for a way 0 to get viewers more excited . '' one of the leaders behind the expanded use of 900 numbers is call interactive , a joint venture of giants american express co. and american telephone & telegraph co . formed in august , the venture weds at&t 's newly expanded 900 service with 200 voice-activated computers in american express 's omaha , neb. , service center . other long-distance carriers have also begun marketing enhanced 900 service , and special consultants are springing up to exploit the new tool . blair entertainment , a new york firm that advises tv stations and sells ads for them , has just formed a subsidiary -- 900 blair -- 0 to apply the technology to television . the use of 900 toll numbers has been expanding rapidly in recent years . for a while , high-cost pornography lines and services that tempt children to dial -lrb- and redial -rrb- movie or music information earned the service a somewhat sleazy image , but new legal restrictions are aimed at trimming excesses . the cost of a 900 call is set by the originator -- abc sports , for example -- with the cheapest starting at 75 cents . billing is included in a caller 's regular phone bill . from the fee , the local phone company and the long-distance carrier extract their costs 0 to carry the call , passing the rest of the money to the originator , which must cover advertising and other costs . in recent months , the technology has become more flexible and able to handle much more volume . before , callers of 900 numbers would just listen and not talk , or they 'd vote `` yes '' or `` no '' by calling one of two numbers . -lrb- people in the phone business call this technology `` 900 click . '' -rrb- now , callers are led through complex menus of choices to retrieve information 0 they want , and the hardware can process 10,000 calls in 90 seconds . up to now , 900 numbers have mainly been used on local tv stations and cable channels . mtv used one to give away the house that rock star jon bon jovi grew up in . for several years , turner broadcasting system 's cable news network has invited viewers to respond nightly to topical issues -lrb- `` should the u.s. military intervene in panama ? '' -rrb- , but even the hottest controversies on cnn log only about 10,000 calls . the newest uses of the 900-interactive technology demonstrate the growing variety of applications . capital cities\/abc inc. , cbs inc. and general electric co. 's national broadcasting co. unit are expected to announce soon a joint campaign 0 to raise awareness about hunger . the subject will be written into the plots of prime-time shows , and viewers will be given a 900 number 0 to call . callers will be sent educational booklets , and the call 's modest cost will be an immediate method of raising money . other network applications have very different goals . abc sports was looking for ways 0 to lift deflated halftime ratings for `` monday night football . '' kurt sanger , abc sports 's marketing director , says that now `` tens of thousands '' of fans call its 900 number each week to vote for the best punt return , quarterback sack , etc . profit from the calls goes to charity , but abc sports also uses the calls as a sales tool : after thanking callers for voting , frank gifford offers a football videotape for $ 19.95 , and 5 % of callers stay on the line to order it . jackets may be sold next . meanwhile , nbc sports recently began `` scores plus , '' a year-round , 24-hour 900 line providing a complex array of scores , analysis and fan news . a spokesman said 0 its purpose is `` to bolster the impression that nbc sports is always there for people . '' nbc 's `` on-line '' consumer minutes have increased advertiser spending during the day , the network 's weakest period . each weekday matches a sponsor and a topic : on mondays , unilever n.v. 's lever bros. sponsors tips on diet and exercise , followed by a 30-second lever bros. commercial . viewers can call a 900 number for additional advice , which will be tailored to their needs based on the numbers 0 they punch -lrb- `` press one if you 're pregnant , '' etc . -rrb- . if the caller stays on the line and leaves a name and address for the sponsor , coupons and a newsletter will be mailed , and the sponsor will be able to gather a list of desirable potential customers . diane seaman , an nbc-tv vice president , says 0 nbc has been able to charge premium rates for this ad time . she would n't say what the premium is , but it 's believed to be about 40 % above regular daytime rates . `` we were able to get advertisers to use their promotion budget for this , because they get a chance 0 to do couponing , '' says ms. seaman . `` and we were able to attract some new advertisers because this is something new . '' mr. parks of call interactive says 0 tv executives are considering the use of 900 numbers for `` talk shows , game shows , news and opinion surveys . '' experts are predicting a big influx of new shows in 1990 , when a service called `` automatic number information '' will become widely available . this service identifies each caller 's phone number , and it can be used to generate instant mailing lists . `` hard copy , '' the new syndicated tabloid show from paramount pictures , will use its 900 number for additional purposes that include research , says 0 executive producer mark b. von s. monsky . `` for a piece on local heroes of world war ii , we can ask people to leave the name and number of anyone 0 they know who won a medal , '' he says . `` that 'll save us time and get people involved . '' but mr. monsky sees much bigger changes ahead . `` these are just baby steps toward real interactive video , which i believe 0 will be the biggest thing yet 0 to affect television , '' he says . although it would be costly to shoot multiple versions , tv programmers could let audiences vote on different endings for a movie . fox broadcasting experimented with this concept last year when viewers of `` married ... with children '' voted on whether al should say `` i love you '' to peg on valentine 's day . someday , viewers may also choose different depths of news coverage . `` a menu by phone could let you decide , ` i 'm interested in just the beginning of story no. 1 , and i want story no. 2 in depth , '' mr. monsky says . `` you 'll start to see shows where viewers program the program .