when president bush arrives here next week for a hemispheric summit organized to commemorate a century of costa rican democracy , will he be able to deliver a credible message in the wake of the panamanian fiasco ? undoubtedly mr. bush will be praised by some latin leaders prone to pay lip service to nonintervention , while they privately encourage more assertive u.s. action 0 to remove gen. manuel noriega and safeguard their countries from a sandinista onslaught . the panamanian affair is only the tip of a more alarming iceberg . it originates in a bush administration decision not to antagonize the u.s. congress and avoid , at all costs , being accused of meddling in the region . the result has been a dangerous vacuum of u.s. leadership , which leaves central america open to soviet adventurism . `` the -lcb- influence of the -rcb- u.s. is not being felt in central america ; washington 's decisions do not respond to a policy , and are divorced from reality , '' says fernando volio , a costa rican congressman and former foreign minister . the disarray of the bush administration 's latin diplomacy was evident in the failure of the organization of american states to condemn categorically gen. noriega . faced with this embarrassment , u.s. diplomats expressed confidence that the influential rio group of south american nations , which gathered last week in peru , would take a stronger posture toward the panamanian dictator . but other than a few slaps on the wrist , gen. noriega went unpunished by that body , too ; he was not even singled out in the closing statement . now mr. bush will come to costa rica and encounter nicaraguan strongman daniel ortega , eager for photo opportunities with the u.s. president . the host , costa rican president oscar arias , did not invite chile , cuba , panama or haiti to the summit , which was to be restricted to democracies . however , mr. ortega was included . formally upgrading the sandinistas to a democratic status was an initiative harshly criticized in the costa rican press . even carlos manuel castillo -- the presidential candidate for mr. arias 's national liberation party -- made public his opposition to the presence of nicaragua `` in a democratic festivity . '' nevertheless , the bush administration agreed to the dubious arrangement in july , a few weeks before the central american presidents met in tela , honduras , to discuss a timetable for disbanding the anti-sandinista rebels . according to officials in washington , the state department hoped that by pleasing president arias , it would gain his support 0 to postpone any decision on the contras until after mr. ortega 's promises of democratic elections were tested next february . however , relying on an ardent critic of the reagan administration and the contra movement for help in delaying the disarming of the contras was risky business . and even some last-minute phone calls that mr. bush made -lrb- at the behest of some conservative u.s. senators -rrb- 0 to enlist backing for the u.s. position failed to stop the march of mr. arias 's agenda . prior to this episode , sen. christopher dodd -lrb- d. , conn. -rrb- , sensing an open field , undertook a personal diplomatic mission through central america 0 to promote an early disbanding of the rebels . visiting nicaragua , he praised the sandinistas for their electoral system and chided the bush administration for not rewarding the sandinistas . in honduras , where the contras are a hot political issue , he promised to help unblock some $ 70 million in assistance withheld due to the failure of local agencies to comply with conditions agreed upon with washington . aid was also the gist of the talks 0 sen. dodd had with salvadoran president alfredo cristiani ; mr. cristiani 's government is very much at the mercy of u.s. largess and is forced to listen very carefully to sen. dodd 's likes and dislikes . it was therefore not surprising that close allies of the u.s. , virtually neglected by the bush administration , ordered the nicaraguan insurgents dismantled by december , long before the elections . fittingly , the tela accords were nicknamed by hondurans `` the dodd plan . '' the individual foreign policy carried out by u.s. legislators adds to a confusing u.s. performance that has emboldened soviet initiatives in central america . on oct. 3 , following conversations with secretary of state james baker , soviet foreign minister eduard shevardnadze arrived in managua to acclaim `` nicaragua 's great peace efforts . '' there , mr. shevardnadze felt legitimized to unveil his own peace plan : the u.s.s.r. would prolong a suspension of arms shipments to nicaragua after the february election if the u.s. did likewise with its allies in central america . he also called on nicaragua 's neighbors to accept a `` military equilibrium '' guaranteed by both superpowers . the pentagon claims that in spite of moscow 's words , east bloc weapons continue to flow into nicaragua through cuba at near-record levels . since mr. shevardnadze 's proposals followed discussions with mr. baker , speculations arose that the bush administration was seeking an accommodation with the soviets in central america . this scheme would fit the arias plan , which declared a false symmetry between soviet military aid to the sandinista dictatorship and that provided by washington to freely elected governments . furthermore , it is also likely to encourage those on capitol hill asking for cuts in the assistance to el salvador if president cristiani does not bend to demands of the marxist guerrillas . the sad condition of u.s. policy in central america is best depicted by the recent end to u.s. sponsorship of radio costa rica . in 1984 , the costa rican government requested help to establish a radio station in the northern part of the country , flooded by airwaves of sandinista propaganda . recovering radiophonic sovereignty was the purpose of radio costa rica , funded by the u.s. and affiliated with the voice of america -lrb- voa -rrb- . a few months ago , the bush administration decided to stop this cooperation , leaving radio costa rica operating on a shoestring . according to news reports , the abrupt termination was due to fears that voa transmissions could interfere with the peace process . in the meantime , russia gave nicaragua another powerful radio transmitter , which has been installed in the city of esteli . it is capable of reaching the entire caribbean area and deep into north america . perhaps its loud signal may generate some awareness of the soviet condominium being created in the isthmus thanks to u.s. default . the soviet entrenchment in nicaragua is alarming for costa rica , a peaceful democracy without an army . questioned in washington about what would happen if his much-heralded peace plan would fail , president arias voiced expectations of direct u.s. action . a poll conducted in july by a gallup affiliate showed that 64 % of costa ricans believe that if their country is militarily attacked by either nicaragua or panama , the u.s. will come to its defense . but in the light of events in panama , where the u.s. has such clear strategic interests , waiting for the delta force may prove to be a dangerous gambit . mr. daremblum is a lawyer and a columnist for la nacion newspaper .