part of a series -rcb- tom panelli had a perfectly good reason for not using the $ 300 rowing machine 0 he bought three years ago . `` i ate a bad tuna sandwich , got food poisoning and had to have a shot in my shoulder , '' he says , making it too painful to row . the soreness , he admits 0 , went away about a week after the shot . yet the rowing machine has n't been touched since , even though he has moved it across the country with him twice . a san francisco lawyer , mr. panelli rowed religiously when he first got the machine , but , he complains , 0 it left grease marks on his carpet , `` and it was boring . it 's a horrible machine , actually . i 'm ashamed 0 i own the stupid thing . '' mr. panelli has plenty of company . nearly three-fourths of the people who own home exercise equipment do n't use it as much as they planned , according to the wall street journal 's `` american way of buying '' survey . the roper organization , which conducted the survey , said 0 almost half of the exercise equipment owners found it duller than they expected . it is n't just exercise gear that is n't getting a good workout . the fitness craze itself has gone soft , the survey found 0 . fewer people said 0 they were working up a sweat with such activities as jogging , tennis , swimming and aerobics . half of those surveyed said 0 they simply walk these days for exercise . that 's good news for marketers of walking shoes . the survey also detected a bit more interest in golf , a positive sign for country clubs and golf club makers . the survey 's findings certainly are n't encouraging for marketers of health-club memberships , tennis rackets and home exercise equipment , but people 's good intentions , if not their actions , are keeping sales of some fitness products healthy . for instance , sales of treadmills , exercise bikes , stair climbers and the like are expected to rise 8 % to about $ 1.52 billion this year , according to the national sporting goods association , which sees the home market as one of the hottest growth areas for the 1990s . but even that group knows 0 some people do n't use their machines as much as they should . `` the first excuse is 0 they do n't have enough time , '' says research director thomas doyle . `` the second is 0 they do n't have enough discipline . '' with more than 15 million exercise bikes sold in the past five years , he adds 0 , `` a lot of garages , basements and attics must be populated with them . '' still , the average price of such bikes rose last year to $ 145 . mr. doyle predicts a trend toward fewer pieces of home exercise equipment being sold at higher prices . electronic gimmicks are key . premark international inc. , for example , peddles the m8.7sp electronic cycling simulator , a $ 2,000 stationary cycle . on a video screen , riders can see 30 different `` rides , '' including urban , mountain and desert scenes , and check how many calories are burned a minute . nancy igdaloff , who works in corporate payments at bank of america in san francisco , may be a good prospect for such a gizmo . she 's trying to sell a $ 150 exercise bike 0 she bought about five years ago for her roommate . but rather than write off home fitness equipment , she traded up : ms. igdaloff just paid about $ 900 for a fancier stationary bike , with a timer , dials showing average and maximum speeds and a comfortable seat that feels almost like a chair . `` i 'm using it a lot , '' she says . `` i spent so much money that if i look at it , and i 'm not on it , i feel guilty . '' the poll points up some inconsistencies between what people say and what they do . a surprising 78 % of people said 0 they exercise regularly , up from 73 % in 1981 . this conjures up images of a nation full of trim , muscular folks , and suggests 0 couch potatoes are out of season . of course , that is n't really the case . the discrepancy may be because asking people about their fitness regime is a bit like inquiring about their love life . they 're bound to exaggerate . `` people say 0 they swim , and that may mean 0 they 've been to the beach this year , '' says krys spain , research specialist for the president 's council on physical fitness and sports . `` it 's hard to know if people are responding truthfully . people are too embarrassed to say 0 they have n't done anything . '' while she applauds the fact that more americans are getting up from the television to stroll or garden , she says 0 the percentage of americans who do `` real exercise 0 to build the heart '' is only 10 % to 20 % . so many people fudge on answers about exercise , 0 the president 's council now uses specific criteria to determine what is considered vigorous : it must produce contractions of large muscle groups , must achieve 60 % of maximum aerobic capacity and must be done three or more times a week for a minimum of 20 minutes . one of the council 's goals , set in 1980 , was to see more than 60 % of adults under 65 years of age getting vigorous exercise by 1990 . that target has been revised to 30 % by the year 2000 . but even that goal may prove optimistic . of 14 activities , the journal survey found that 12 -- including bicycling , skiing and swimming -- are being done by fewer americans today than eight years ago . time pressures and the ebb of the fitness fad are cited as reasons for the decline . only walking and golf increased in popularity during the 1980s -- and only slightly . jeanette traverso , a california lawyer , gave up running three times a week to play a weekly round of golf , finding it more social and serene . it 's an activity 0 she feels 0 she can do for life , and by pulling a golf cart , she still gets a good workout . `` i 'm really wiped out after walking five hours , '' she says . most people said 0 they exercise both for health and enjoyment . `` if you sit down all the time , you 'll go stiff , '' says joyce hagood , a roxboro , n.c. , homemaker who walks several miles a week . `` and it 's relaxing . sometimes , if you have a headache , you can go out and walk it right off . '' only about a quarter of the respondents said 0 they exercise to lose weight . slightly more , like leslie sherren , a law librarian in san francisco who attends dance aerobics five times a week , exercise to relieve stress . `` working with lawyers , '' she says , `` i need it . '' but fully 90 % of those polled felt 0 they did n't need to belong to a health club . `` they 're too crowded , and everybody 's showing off , '' says joel bryant , a 22-year-old student from pasadena , calif . `` the guys are being macho , and the girls are walking around in little things . they 're not there to work out . '' but at least they show up . nearly half of those who joined health clubs said 0 they did n't use their membership as often as they planned . feeling 0 they should devote more time to their families or their jobs , many yuppies are skipping their once-sacred workout . even so , the association of quality clubs , a health-club trade group in boston , says 0 membership revenues will rise about 5 % this year from last year 's $ 5 billion . a spokeswoman adds , however , that the group is considering offering `` a behavior-modification course , similar to a smoking-cessation program , 0 to teach people ways 0 to stay with it . '' there are die-hard bodies , of course . the proprietor of sante west , an aerobics studio in san francisco 's marina district , which was hit hard by the earthquake , says , `` people were going nuts the minute 0 we opened , '' three days after the quake . `` the emotional aspect is so draining , 0 they needed a good workout . '' perhaps the most disturbing finding is that the bowling alley may be an endangered american institution . the survey reported 0 the number of people who said 0 they bowl regularly has fallen to just 8 % from 17 % in 1981 . the american bowling congress claims 0 a higher percentage of the public bowls regularly , but concedes 0 its membership has declined this decade . to find out why , the group recently commissioned a study of the past 20 years of bowling-related research . three reasons were pinpointed : a preference for watching bowling and other sports on television rather than actually bowling , dowdy bowling centers , and dissatisfaction with bowling itself . people who start bowling expecting it to be a pleasurable exercise `` have been generally disappointed , '' the report said . but not richard cottrell , a san francisco cab driver who bowls in two weekly leagues . he hit the lanes three years ago on the advice of his doctor . `` it 's good exercise , '' he says . `` i ca n't do anything score-wise , but i like meeting the girls . '' he says 0 bowling helps him shed pounds , though that effort is sometimes thwarted by the fact that `` when i 'm drinking , i bowl better . '' his tuesday night team , the leftovers , is in first place .