investors unsettled by the stock market 's gyrations can take some comfort in the predictable arrival of quarterly dividend checks . that has been particularly true this year with many companies raising their payouts more than 10 % . but do n't breathe too easy : those dividend increases may signal trouble ahead for stock prices , some analysts warn 0 . in the past , they say 0 , the strongest dividend growth has often come at times when the stock-market party was almost over . that can be a trap for unwary investors , says 0 richard bernstein , senior quantitative analyst at merrill lynch & co . strong dividend growth , he says 0 , is `` the black widow of valuation '' -- a reference to the female spiders that attract males and then kill them after mating . stephen boesel , president of t. rowe price growth and income fund , explains that companies raise their payouts most robustly only after the economy and corporate profits have been growing for some time . `` invariably , those strong periods in the economy give way to recessionary environments , '' he says . `` and recessionary environments are n't hospitable to the stock market . '' indeed , analysts say that payouts have sometimes risen most sharply when prices were already on their way down from cyclical peaks . in 1976 , for example , dividends on the stocks in standard & poor 's 500-stock index soared 10 % , following much slower growth the year before . the s&p index started sliding in price in september 1976 , and fell 12 % in 1977 -- despite a 15 % expansion in dividends that year . that pattern has n't always held , but recent strong growth in dividends makes some market watchers anxious . payouts on the s&p 500 stocks rose 10 % in 1988 , according to standard & poor 's corp. , and wall street estimates for 1989 growth are generally between 9 % and 14 % . many people believe 0 the growth in dividends will slow next year , although a minority see double-digit gains continuing . meanwhile , many market watchers say 0 recent dividend trends raise another warning flag : while dividends have risen smartly , their expansion has n't kept pace with even stronger advances in stock prices . as a result , the market 's dividend yield -- dividends as a percentage of price -- has slid to a level that is fairly low and unenticing by historical standards . put another way , the decline in the yield suggests 0 stocks have gotten pretty rich in price relative to the dividends 0 they pay , some market analysts say 0 . they are keeping a close watch on the yield on the s&p 500 . the figure is currently about 3.3 % , up from 3.2 % before the recent market slide . some analysts say 0 investors should run for the exits if a sustained market rebound pushes the yield below 3 % . a drop below that 3 % benchmark `` has always been a strong warning sign that stocks are fully valued , '' says 0 mr. boesel of t. rowe price . in fact , `` the market has always tanked . always . there 's never been an exception , '' says 0 gerald w. perritt , a chicago investment adviser and money manager , based on a review of six decades of stock-market data . the last time 0 the s&p 500 yield dropped below 3 % was in the summer of 1987 . stockholders who took the hint and sold shares escaped the october debacle . there have been only seven other times -- in 1929 , 1933 , 1961 , 1965 , 1968 , 1971 and 1972 -- when the yield on the s&p 500 dropped below 3 % for at least two consecutive months , mr. perritt found 0 . and in each case , he says 0 , a sharp drop in stock prices began within a year . still , some market analysts say 0 the current 3.3 % reading is n't as troublesome as it might have been in years past . `` it 's not a very meaningful indicator currently because corporations are not behaving in a traditional manner , '' says james h. coxon , head of stock investments for cigna corp. , the philadelphia-based insurer . in particular , mr. coxon says 0 , businesses are paying out a smaller percentage of their profits and cash flow in the form of dividends than they have historically . so , while stock prices may look fairly high relative to dividends , they are not excessive relative to the underlying corporate strength . rather than increasing dividends , some companies have used cash to buy back some of their shares , notes 0 steven g. einhorn , co-chairman of the investment policy committee at goldman , sachs & co . he factors that into the market yield to get an adjusted yield of about 3.6 % . that is just a tad below the average of the past 40 years or so , he says 0 . what will happen to dividend growth next year ? common wisdom suggests a single-digit rate of growth , reflecting a weakening in the economy and corporate profits . painewebber inc. , for instance , is forecasting growth in s&p 500 dividends of just under 5 % in 1990 , down from an estimated 11 % this year . in other years in which there have been moderate economic slowdowns -- the environment 0 the firm expects in 1990 -- the change in dividends ranged from a gain of 4 % to a decline of 1 % , according to painewebber analyst thomas doerflinger . the minority argument , meanwhile , is that businesses have the financial wherewithal this time around 0 to declare sharply higher dividends even if their earnings weaken . dividend growth on the order of 12 % is expected by both mr. coxon of cigna and mr. einhorn of goldman sachs . those dividend bulls argue that corporations are in the unusual position of having plenty of cash left over after paying dividends and making capital expenditures . one indicator 0 investors might want to watch is the monthly tally from standard & poor 's of the number of public companies adjusting their dividends . a total of 139 companies raised dividends in october , basically unchanged from 138 a year ago , s&p said 0 wednesday . that followed four straight months in which the number of increases trailed the year-earlier pace . while the s&p tally does n't measure the magnitude of dividend changes , a further slippage in the number of dividend increases could be a harbinger of slower dividend growth next year . in any case , opinion is mixed on how much of a boost the overall stock market would get even if dividend growth continues at double-digit levels . mr. einhorn of goldman sachs estimates 0 the stock market will deliver a 12 % to 15 % total return from appreciation and dividends over the next 12 months -- vs. a `` cash rate of return '' of perhaps 7 % or 8 % if dividend growth is weak . but mr. boesel of t. rowe price , who also expects 12 % growth in dividends next year , does n't think 0 it will help the overall market all that much . `` having the dividend increases is a supportive element in the market outlook , but i do n't think 0 it 's a main consideration , '' he says . with slower economic growth and flat corporate earnings likely next year , `` i would n't look for the market to have much upside from current levels .