lung-cancer mortality rates for people under 45 years of age have begun to decline , federal researchers report 0 . the drop is particularly large for white males , although black males and white and black women also show lower mortality rates . a report in this week 's issue of the journal of the national cancer institute also projects that overall u.s. mortality rates from lung cancer , the leading cause of cancer death , should begin to drop in several years if cigarette smoking continues to abate . the report , which comes 25 years after the u.s. surgeon general issued a report warning against the dangers of smoking , is the strongest indication to date that the reduction in smoking is leading to lower death rates from lung cancer . `` what this is saying is that the surgeon general 's message is having an impact , '' said melvyn tockman , an epidemiologist at the johns hopkins school of hygiene and public health in baltimore . the national cancer institute report compares mortality rates of two groups of people between the ages of 35 and 44 a decade apart . the death rate from lung cancer of white males aged 35 to 44 in the mid-1970s was 13.4 per 100,000 , but the mortality rate of the same age group in the mid-1980s was 9.6 , a decline of 28.7 % . measured the same way , the decline for black males was 14.2 % . the drop in mortality rates for women was less steep -- 8.9 % for blacks and 5.3 % for whites . the study , by susan devesa , william blot and joseph fraumeni of the institute 's staff , also shows that the incidence of lung cancer as well as the death rate declined over the decade for all groups in the 35-44 age bracket , except black men . although lung-cancer mortality rates are increasing for the nation as a whole , the report projects that death rates will begin to decline in the 1990s for men and after the year 2000 for women . lung-cancer mortality rates increase with age and are continuing to rise for all age groups over 55 , with sharp increases for everybody but white men . but dr. fraumeni , one of the authors of the report , said `` the declining rates 0 we 're seeing for younger people we believe may be a harbinger of declining mortality in the future . '' however , he stressed that the improvement depends on a continued reduction in smoking . `` even though these favorable trends in lung-cancer mortality affect all sex and race groups , they ca n't be taken for granted , '' the report says . `` smoking prevention programs should reach larger segments of the population , especially children , adolescents and minorities . '' an editorial in the nci journal says 0 the report of declining lung-cancer mortality `` among young men and women in the u.s. indicates that we finally may be winning the battle -- this even in a country where the tobacco industry spends over $ 2 billion a year for promotion of the addictive habit of smoking . '' but the editorial , by jan stjernsward of the world health organization , notes that tobacco consumption and lung-cancer mortality rates are rising in developing countries . `` non-smoking should be established as the norm of social behavior '' around the world , the editorial says 0 , through the enactment of laws that limit advertising , boost tobacco prices and promote anti-smoking education . asked for comment , walker merryman , a vice president of the tobacco institute , said 0 new efforts to restrict tobacco advertising in the u.s. could violate the first amendment protection of free speech . according to the american cancer society , smoking is responsible for 85 % of the lung-cancer cases among men and 75 % among women . the nci report attributes the differences in mortality rates by race to different smoking patterns . a higher proportion of black men smoke than white men . while nearly equal percentages of black and white women currently smoke , in both sexes more whites have given up smoking than blacks . in comparing changes in mortality rates over the past decade , the nci study looked only at blacks and whites . asians and native americans were n't studied ; hispanics were included with whites . recent changes in average annual age-specific lung-cancer rates per 100,000 population by race and sex . white males white females black males black females