senate democrats favoring a cut in the capital-gains tax have decided , under pressure from their leaders , not to offer their own proposal , placing another obstacle in the path of president bush 's legislative priority . a core group of six or so democratic senators has been working behind the scenes to develop a proposal to reduce the tax on the gain from the sale of assets . the plan was complete except for finishing touches , and there was talk that it would be unveiled as early as yesterday . but senate majority leader george mitchell -lrb- d. , maine -rrb- , a vigorous opponent of the capital-gains tax cut , called the group to meet with him wednesday night and again yesterday . sen. mitchell urged them to desist . afterward , leaders of the dissident democrats relented , and said 0 they would n't offer their own proposal as they had planned . the decision is a setback for president bush , who needs the support of democrats to pass the tax cut through the democratic-controlled senate . having a proposal sponsored by democrats would have given the president an advantage . having only a republican measure makes the task harder . still , sen. bob packwood -lrb- r. , ore. -rrb- , the lead sponsor of the republican capital-gains amendment , predicted that the tax cut would be enacted this year . he said 0 a clear majority of senators back the tax reduction and that ultimately there would be enough senators 0 to overcome any procedural hurdle 0 the democratic leadership might erect . but sen. mitchell , buoyed by his victory among fellow democrats , strongly disagreed . mr. mitchell has been predicting that the president 's initiative would fail this year . yesterday , in an interview , he added that the democrats ' decision `` increases the likelihood that a capital-gains tax cut will not pass this year . '' mr. mitchell 's first victory came last week , when the senate passed a deficit-reduction bill that did n't contain a capital-gains provision . that vote made it unlikely that a capital-gains tax cut would be included in the final bill , now being drafted by house and senate negotiators . the house version of the bill does include the tax cut . now republican leaders are concentrating on attaching a capital-gains amendment to some other bill , perhaps a measure raising the federal borrowing limit or a second tax bill that would follow on the heels of the deficit-reduction legislation . to help lay the groundwork for that fight , president bush plans early next week to meet at the white house with some 20 democratic senators who favor cutting the capital-gains tax or are undecided on the issue . the president apparently will have only one bill 0 to push , sen. packwood 's , and at least some of the dissident democrats plan to support it . `` i may want to offer additional amendments 0 to improve it when the bill comes to the floor , '' said sen. david boren -lrb- d. , okla. -rrb- , a leader of those democrats . the packwood plan , as expected , would allow individuals to exclude from income 5 % of the gain from the sale of a capital asset held for more than one year . the exclusion would rise five percentage points for each year 0 the asset was held , until it reached a maximum of 35 % after seven years . the exclusion would apply to assets sold after oct. 1 . as an alternative , taxpayers could chose to reduce their gains by an inflation index . for corporations , the top tax rate on the sale of assets held for more than three years would be cut to 33 % from the current top rate of 34 % . that rate would gradually decline to as little as 29 % for corporate assets held for 15 years . the packwood plan also would include a proposal , designed by sen. william roth -lrb- r. , del. -rrb- , that would create new tax benefits for individual retirement accounts . the roth plan would create a new , non-deductible ira from which money could be withdrawn tax-free not only for retirement , but also for the purchase of a first home , education expenses and medical expenses . current iras could be rolled over into the new iras , but would be subject to tax though no penalty .