a shiny new takeover deal sparked a big rally in stock prices , which buoyed the dollar . bond prices also edged higher . georgia-pacific 's $ 3.18 billion bid for great northern nekoosa helped drive the dow jones industrial average up 41.60 points , to 2645.08 , in active trading . the dollar drew strength from the stock market 's climb . long-term bond prices rose despite trepidation about what a key economic report will show today . analysts said 0 the offer for great northern nekoosa broke the pall that settled over the takeover business for the past three weeks in the wake of the collapsed ual corp . buy-out . great northern nekoosa soared $ 20.125 a share , to $ 62.875 , substantially above the $ 58 a share 0 georgia-pacific is offering . that indicates 0 speculators are betting 0 a higher offer is in the wings . prices of other paper makers rose sharply , although georgia-pacific fell $ 2.50 a share , to $ 50.875 . despite all the furor over program trading , program trading played a big role in yesterday 's rally . some traders point out that as the big brokerage firms back out of program trading for their own accounts or for clients , opportunities increase for others to engage in the controversial practice . that 's what happened yesterday . the rally notwithstanding , there are plenty of worries about the short-term course of stock prices . a slowing economy and its effect on corporate earnings is the foremost concern of many traders and analysts . unless the federal reserve eases interest rates soon to stimulate the economy , profits could remain disappointing . yesterday 's major economic news -- a 0.2 % rise in the september index of leading economic indicators -- had little impact on financial markets . but the next important piece of news on the economy 's health -- this morning 's release of the national purchasing manager 's survey for october -- could prompt investors into action . a report late yesterday that the chicago-area purchasing managers survey showed increased economic activity in that part of the country cut into bond-price gains . if the national survey confirms a pickup in the manufacturing sector , it could further depress bond prices while bolstering stock prices and the dollar . meanwhile , bond investors are laboring under the onus of a national debt ceiling debate . although the treasury is expected to announce details of its november quarterly refunding operation today , the nov. 79 schedule could be delayed unless congress and the president act soon to lift the nation 's debt ceiling . in major market activity : stock prices rallied in active trading . volume on the new york stock exchange totaled 176.1 million shares . advancing issues on the big board surged ahead of decliners 1,111 to bond prices rose . the treasury 's benchmark 30-year bond gained less than a quarter of a point , or less than $ 2.50 for each $ 1,000 of face amount . the yield on the issue slipped to 7.91 % . the dollar gained against most foreign currencies . in late afternoon new york trading , the dollar was at 1.8415 marks and 142.85 yen compared with 1.8340 marks and 141.90 yen late monday .