the panhandler approaches , makes his pitch . it may be straightforward -- he wants money for food -- or incredibly convoluted ; his sister is at this very moment near death in hoboken , he has lost his wallet and has only $ 1.22 in change 0 to put toward a bus ticket costing $ 3.83 , and wo n't you give him the difference ? no ? well , how about a loan , he 'll take your name and address ... figuring that their money would more likely go toward a bottle of night train express , most people have little trouble saying no to propositions like this . but healthy skepticism vanishes when they are solicited by an organized charity to help fight cancer , famine , child abuse , or what have you . most see little reason 0 to doubt that their cash will go toward these noble goals . but will it ? in a distressing number of cases , no . in fact , the donors sometimes might be better off giving the money to the panhandler : at least he has no overhead , and he might even be telling the truth . last year , more than $ 100 billion was donated to the nation 's 400,000 charities . while the vast bulk of it was indeed spent by reputable organizations on the good works 0 it was raised for , it 's equally true that a sizable hunk was consumed in `` expenses '' claimed by other operators , including fraudulent expenses . in many cases the costs claimed were so high that only a dribble of cash was left for the purported beneficiaries . it 's impossible to say exactly how much of the total charity intake is devoured by stratospheric fund-raising costs , high-living operators , and downright fraud . but the problem clearly is widespread and persistent . state law enforcers can barely keep up with charity scams , and reports from watchdog groups such as the council of better business bureaus are not encouraging . the philanthropic advisory service of the bbb reviews hundreds of new charities every year , measuring them against minimum standards for accountability ; for accuracy and honesty in solicitation ; and for percentage of funds actually going to work for which the charity was supposedly established . the service figures 0 at least half of the money taken in should be spent on program . roughly a third of the charities reviewed flunk the test . which , it should be added , does n't prevent the charities from raking in a lot of money anyway . without a microscope and a subpoena , it 's often hard to sort out worthwhile causes from ripoffs if all 0 you 've got 0 to go on is the solicitation itself . on this basis , `` there 's no way 0 the average person can know a good charity from a bad one , '' says 0 david ormstedt , an assistant attorney general in connecticut . `` a lot of donors just get taken . '' including those , he contends , who put about $ 1 million into the kitty for the connecticut association of concerned veterans and the vietnam veterans service center . the state has sued these charities in state court , complaining that much of the money was grossly misspent ; 82 % , says mr. ormstedt , went to fund raisers and most of the rest to the people who ran the charities and to their relatives -- for fur coats , trips to florida , lucullan restaurant tabs . the telephone number for the charity in shelton , conn. , has been disconnected , and the former officials could n't be located . running a charity does cost money , but reputable organizations manage to get the lion 's share of donations out to where they are really needed . the arthritis foundation , the american cancer society and the united way of america all say that they spend roughly 90 % of their income on programs , not overhead . with some other charities , however , it s the other way around . the fledgling national children 's cancer society , for example , took in $ 2.5 million last year to finance bone-marrow transplants for children . by the time 0 it paid its expenses it only had $ 120,000 left -- not enough to treat even one child . the state of illinois is suing the charity for fraud in chicago , along with telesystems marketing inc. , its houston-based fund raiser . both deny wrongdoing . the charity admits spending a lot on fund raising , but says 0 that was necessary to establish a donor base 0 it can tap at much lower cost in years 0 to come . michael burns , president of telesystems , says 0 his concern has only benefited from the publicity surrounding the case , noting that three other charities have signed on as clients because they were impressed with the amount 0 he raised for national children 's . meanwhile , a state court judge has allowed the charity to go on soliciting funds . enforcers ca n't put charities out of business simply because they spend the lion 's share of their income on fund raising . state laws previously used as a yardstick minimum percentages of income -- usually half -- that had to be spent on the program rather than overhead , but these have been overturned by the u.s. supreme court . it has ruled that such laws might work to stifle fund raising , which would amount to limiting the charities ' first-amendment right to freedom of expression . this puts upon enforcers the burden of proving outright fraud or misrepresentation , and such actions have been brought against hundreds of charities recently . the attorney general 's office in connecticut alone has put seven of them out of business over the past couple of years , and the enforcement drive is continuing there and elsewhere . in making cases , the authorities frequently zero in on alleged misrepresentations made by the charities ' fund raisers . illinois , for instance , currently has under investigation 10 of the 30 companies drumming up funds for charities soliciting there . enforcers pay special attention to operators using sweepstakes prizes as an additional inducement to give . attorneys general in several states , including illinois , are already suing watson & hughey co. , an alexandria , va.-based outfit that they say 0 has used deceptive sweepstakes ads to solicit donations for the american heart disease foundation and the cancer fund of america . according to the illinois attorney general 's suit , watson & hughey sent mailings indicating that recipients were guaranteed cash prizes , and could win up to an additional $ 1,000 on top of them , if they contributed as little as $ 7 . but the total value of the prizes was only $ 5,000 and most `` winners '' will receive just 10 cents , according to the attorney general 's office . the suit is still pending in illinois state court . watson & hughey has denied the allegations in court ; officials decline to comment further . while they can target some of the most obvious miscreants , enforcers concede that they are only scratching the surface . there are so many cunning ploys used by so many dubious operators , they say 0 , that it is probably impossible to stop them all . one maneuver : the `` public education '' gambit . the solicitation material indicates that donations will go toward a campaign alerting and informing the public about some health or other issue . what it does n't say is that the entire `` campaign '' may be the fund-raising letter itself . `` all too often this will merely be a statement on the solicitation such as , ` do n't smoke ! ' or ` wear suntan lotion , ' `` says william webster , attorney general of missouri . `` by putting these pithy statements on the solicitations , hundreds of thousands of dollars are claimed to have been spent on education to consumers when in fact this represents the costs of sending the newsletters . '' mr. webster cites a four-page mailing from the united cancer council that offers a chance to win $ 5,000 in gold bullion to those giving as little as $ 5 to cancer education . `` a few boilerplate warnings about cancer appear but that 's only two inches in all four pages . i think 0 some people may believe 0 they 're helping fund a massive tv and print campaign , but we could n't find that the charity does anything except write these letters , '' he says . officials at the washington d.c.-based charity did n't return repeated phone calls . many fly-by-night charities ride the coattails of the biggest , best-known and most reputable ones by adopting names similar to theirs . the established charities are bothered by this but say 0 they can do little about it . `` we ca n't police the many organizations that have sprung up in the last few years using part of our name . most of them do n't last for long , but in the meantime all 0 we can do is tell people 0 they are n't connected with us , '' says a spokeswoman for the american heart association . and sometimes a reputable charity with a household name gets used and does n't even know it . a couple in rockford , ill. , raised $ 12,591 earlier this year using the name and logo of mothers against drunk driving , without permission from the group . madd did n't learn of the fund raising until the couple sent it a check for $ 613 , along with a letter saying 0 that was the charity 's `` share . '' the illinois attorney general won a court order to prevent the couple from raising further funds without madd 's permission . the couple could n't be reached for comment and apparently have left rockford , law enforcement officials report 0 . denise mcdonald , a spokeswoman for madd , says , `` it 's scary , because anybody could do this . '' mr. johnson is a staff reporter in the wall street journal 's chicago bureau . overhead costs at some of the largest charities , in millions of dollars