new york financier saul steinberg sought federal permission to buy more than 15 % of united airlines ' parent , ual corp. , saying 0 he might seek control of the nation 's second-largest airline . although takeover experts said 0 they doubted 0 mr. steinberg will make a bid by himself , the application by his reliance group holdings inc. could signal his interest in helping revive a failed labor-management bid . such an application for federal antitrust clearance is necessary for any investor that might seek control . but some investors have used such filings to boost the value of their stock holdings , which -- without buying more stock -- they then sold . takeover stock traders were puzzled by the reliance filing and cautioned that it does n't mean 0 mr. steinberg will definitely seek control . `` maybe he just wants to make something happen , '' said one takeover expert . one investment banker said 0 mr. steinberg may be trying to position himself as a friendly investor who could help ual chairman stephen wolf revive a failed labor-management bid . mr. steinberg , he suggested 0 , could replace british airways plc , which has withdrawn from the buy-out group . reliance had already bought and sold ual stock at a big profit without making an antitrust filing before the collapse oct. 13 of the $ 6.79 billion , $ 300-a-share labor-management buy-out . reliance acquired a 7 % ual stake early this year at an average cost of $ 110 a share , and reduced its stake to 4.7 % after ual accepted the bid at prices higher than $ 282 a share . market sources said 0 reliance has already sold its entire ual stake , and thus would n't have any reason to file the application simply to boost the value of its stock . but the exact amount of reliance 's current holding has n't been formally disclosed . the filing adds a new twist to market speculation that coniston partners , a new york money manager , has bought more than 5 % of ual stock and may challenge the ual board 's decision last week to remain independent . speculation about coniston has caused the stock to rebound from a low of $ 145 . ual 's announcement came after the market closed yesterday . in composite new york stock exchange trading , the shares closed at $ 177 , up $ 1.50 . ual would n't elaborate on a statement that it had been notified of the filing by reliance . reliance confirmed the filing but would n't elaborate . some takeover experts were skeptical , saying 0 it was possible that mr. steinberg made the filing only to help boost the value of any remaining reliance stake in ual . mr. steinberg is thought to be on friendly terms with ual 's mr. wolf . the investor was instrumental in tapping mr. wolf to run the air cargo unit of tiger international inc . mr. wolf 's success in that job helped him land the top job with ual in december 1987 . but any potential acquirer must attempt to reach some kind of accord with the company 's employees , primarily its pilots and the powerful machinists ' union , which has opposed a takeover .