general motors corp. , in a series of moves that angered union officials in the u.s. and canada , has signaled that as many as five north american assembly plants may not survive the mid-1990s as the corporation struggles to cut its excess vehicle-making capacity . in announcements to workers late last week , gm effectively signed death notices for two full-sized van assembly plants , and cast serious doubt on the futures of three u.s. car factories . gm is under intense pressure to close factories that became unprofitable as the giant auto maker 's u.s. market share skidded during the past decade . the company , currently using about 80 % of its north american vehicle capacity , has vowed 0 it will run at 100 % of capacity by 1992 . just a month ago , gm announced 0 it would make an aging assembly plant in lakewood , ga. , the eighth u.s. assembly facility 0 to close since 1987 . now , gm appears to be stepping up the pace of its factory consolidation to get in shape for the 1990s . one reason is mounting competition from new japanese car plants in the u.s. that are pouring out more than one million vehicles a year at costs lower than gm can match . another is that united auto workers union officials have signaled 0 they want tighter no-layoff provisions in the new big three national contract that will be negotiated next year . gm officials want to get their strategy 0 to reduce capacity and the work force in place before those talks begin . the problem , however , is that gm 's moves are coming at a time when uaw leaders are trying to silence dissidents who charge 0 the union is too passive in the face of gm layoffs . against that backdrop , uaw vice president stephen p. yokich , who recently became head of the union 's gm department , issued a statement friday blasting gm 's `` flagrant insensitivity '' toward union members . the auto maker 's decision to let word of the latest shutdowns and product reassignments trickle out in separate communiques to the affected plants showed `` disarray '' and an `` inability or unwillingness to provide consistent information , '' mr. yokich said 0 . gm officials told workers late last week of the following moves : production of full-sized vans will be consolidated into a single plant in flint , mich . that means 0 two plants -- one in scarborough , ontario , and the other in lordstown , ohio -- probably will be shut down after the end of 1991 . the shutdowns will idle about 3,000 canadian assembly workers and about 2,500 workers in ohio . robert white , canadian auto workers union president , used the impending scarborough shutdown to criticize the u.s.-canada free trade agreement and its champion , prime minister brian mulroney . but canadian auto workers may benefit from a separate gm move that affects three u.s. car plants and one in quebec . workers at plants in van nuys , calif. , oklahoma city and pontiac , mich. , were told 0 their facilities are no longer being considered to build the next generation of the pontiac firebird and chevrolet camaro muscle cars . gm is studying whether it can build the new camaro-firebird profitably at a plant in st. therese , quebec , company and union officials said 0 . that announcement left union officials in van nuys and oklahoma city uncertain about their futures . the van nuys plant , which employs about 3,000 workers , does n't have a product 0 to build after 1993 . jerry shrieves , uaw local president , said 0 the facility was asked to draw up plans to continue working as a `` flex plant , '' which could build several different types of products on short notice to satisfy demand . at the oklahoma city plant , which employs about 6,000 workers building the eight-year-old a-body mid-sized cars , steve featherston , uaw local vice president , said 0 the plant has no new product lined up , and `` 0 none of us knows '' when the a-body cars will die . he said 0 he believes 0 gm has plans to keep building a-body cars into the mid-1990s . at pontiac , however , the camaro-firebird decision appears to erase uaw hopes that gm would reopen the shuttered assembly plant that last built the plastic-bodied , two-seater pontiac fiero model . the fiero plant was viewed as a model of union-management cooperation at gm before slow sales of the fiero forced the company to close the factory last year . union officials have taken a beating politically as a result . dissident uaw members have used the fiero plant as a symbol of labor-management cooperation 's failure .