your oct. 12 editorial `` pitiful , helpless presidency ? '' correctly states that i was critical of the bush administration 's failure to have any plan in place to respond in a timely fashion to the opportunities to oust manuel noriega presented by the attempted military coup on oct. 3 . you are absolutely wrong , however , in opining that this position is some kind of `` flip-flop , '' something newly arrived at as a result of reading the opinion polls . my position is one founded on both the facts and the law . although you may have forgotten , public opinion about gen. noriega is where it is in large measure because of my investigation of his years of involvement in narcotics smuggling -lrb- and simultaneous work as a u.s. operative -rrb- . the public made up its mind about gen. noriega largely as a result of the hearings 0 i chaired in the subcommittee on terrorism and narcotics of the foreign relations committee on feb. 8 , 9 , 10 and 11 , 1988 , and again on april 4 , 1988 . it was during those hearings that the nation first learned the breadth and depth of gen. noriega 's criminality , and of his enduring relationships with a variety of u.s. government agencies . those hearings also highlighted how gen. noriega was able to use his relationships with these agencies to delay u.s. action against him , and to exploit the administration 's obsession with overthrowing the sandinistas to protect his own drug-dealing . as former ambassador to costa rica francis j. mcneil testified before the subcommittee , the reagan administration knew that gen. noriega was involved with narcotics , but made a decision in the summer of 1986 `` to put gen. noriega on the shelf until nicaragua was settled . '' as the report issued by the subcommittee concluded , `` our government did nothing regarding gen. noriega 's drug business and substantial criminal involvement because the first priority was the contra war . this decision resulted in at least some drugs entering the united states as a hidden cost of the war . '' unfortunately , this problem continued even after gen. noriega 's indictment . throughout 1988 and this year , i and others in congress have pressed the u.s. to develop a plan for pushing this `` narcokleptocrat '' out of panama . regrettably , two administrations in a row have been unwilling and unable to develop any plan , military or economic , for supporting the panamanian people in their attempts to restore democracy . sen. john kerry -lrb- d. , mass . -rrb-