in sizing up the risks of stock-market investments , there 's probably no starting place better than `` beta . '' but investors better not ignore its limitations , either . beta is a handy gauge that measures the volatility of a stock or stock mutual fund . for any given move in the overall market , it suggests how steeply that particular issue might rise or fall . beta figures are widely available and easy 0 to interpret . the beta of the broad market , typically defined as the standard & poor 's 500-stock index , is always 1.0 . so a stock with a beta of 0.5 is half as volatile , one at 1.5 is 50 % more volatile , and so on . cautious investors should generally go with stocks that have low betas . go with high-beta stocks to get the biggest payoff from a bet on a bull market . remember , though , that beta also has important limitations . `` beta is only part of the risk in a stock , '' says william f. sharpe , the stanford university emeritus professor who developed the measure . `` there is risk that is not associated with market moves , and the beta does n't tell you the magnitude of that . '' in particular , beta does n't measure the company - and industry-specific risk associated with an individual stock . that `` business '' risk is very significant for an investor with only a few stocks , but it virtually disappears in a large and well-diversified portfolio . beta is also a poor indicator of the risk in stock groups that march to their own drummer . in particular , the prices of gold and other precious-metals stocks shoot up and down , but the stocks tend to have low betas because their moves are not market-inspired . concern that investors could misinterpret such readings led the american association of individual investors to eliminate beta figures for precious-metals funds in the 1989 edition of its mutual-fund guide . `` our fear was 0 people would look just at the beta -lcb- of a gold fund -rcb- and say 0 here is an investment with very low risk , '' says john markese , director of research for the chicago-based group . `` in reality it 's very volatile , but the movements are not because of market movements .