should you really own stocks ? that 's a question 0 a lot of people are asking , following the stock market 's stunning display of volatility . whipsawed financially and emotionally by friday 's heartstopping 190-point drop in the dow jones industrial average and yesterday 's 88-point rebound , they 're wondering if an individual has any business being in the market . the answer , say 0 academic researchers , money managers and investment specialists , is yes -- as long as you approach the stock market as an investor . but , they say 0 , people should n't try to be traders , who buy and sell in an effort to ride the latest economic trend or catch the next hot stock . the case for owning stocks over the long-term is compelling . `` if you look at 75 years worth of investment history -- including the great depression and every bear market since -- stocks have outperformed almost everything 0 an individual could have owned by a long shot , '' says barry berlin , vice president at first wachovia capital management . a dollar invested in the stock market in 1926 would have grown to $ 473.29 by the end of last june , according to laurence siegel , managing director at ibbotson associates inc . but a dollar invested in long-term bonds in 1926 would have grown to only $ 16.56 , and a dollar put in treasury bills would equal a meager $ 9.29 . the longer the time period , the less risk 0 there is of losing money in the stock market . over time , the odds increasingly favor the investor with a diversified portfolio . for instance , ken gregory , a san francisco money manager , calculates that if an investor holds a basket of stocks that tracks the standard & poor 's 500-stock index , the chance of losing money is 3 % to 4 % over a 10-year period , compared with 15 % over three years and 30 % over one year . `` if you do n't need the money for 10 years , there 's a clear-cut case for sticking to a steady core of stocks , '' mr. gregory says . stock-market investments also help balance the other assets 0 an individual owns , says 0 john blankenship jr. , president of the institute of certified financial planners . stocks have a place in an investors ' portfolio along with real estate , bonds , international securities and cash , he says 0 . there are some important caveats : before investing in stocks , individuals should have at least three to six months of living expenses set aside in the bank , most investment advisers say 0 . individuals also should focus on building equity in a home , which provides some protection against inflation , as well as a nest-egg that can be cashed in late in life to help cover the cost of retirement living . people also should n't invest money in stocks that they 'll need in the near future -- for example , for college tuition payments or retirement expenses . `` you may have to sell your stocks at a time when the market takes a plunge , '' says mr. blankenship , a del mar , calif. financial planner . but once the basics are covered , `` then i would start to invest , even if it 's as little as $ 1,000 , '' says 0 michael lipper , president of lipper analytical services inc . he says 0 individuals should consider not just stocks , but other long-term investments , such as high-quality bonds . despite the strong case for stocks , however , most pros warn that individuals should n't try to profit from short-term developments . `` it 's very difficult 0 to do , '' says donald holt , a market strategist for wedbush morgan securities , a los angeles brokerage firm . `` our markets move so fast and they are so volatile , 0 there 's no way 0 the average investor can compete with the pros . '' individual investors face high transaction costs of moving in and out of the market . the cost of executing stock orders varies from brokerage to brokerage and with the size of the order , but 2 % of the order 's value is an average , says 0 stephen boesel , manager of t. rowe price 's growth and income mutual fund . and assuming 0 their first investment is successful , investors will have to pay taxes on their gains . that can reduce returns by a third or more , once local taxes are included , mr. lipper says 0 . after that , individual traders face the risk that the new investment 0 they choose wo n't perform well -- so their trading costs could be sustained for nothing . `` it 's very tough for most individuals to out-trade the mutual funds or the market , '' says mr. lipper . `` you should really think twice if you think 0 you can out-smart the system . '' then , too , many individual investors lack the sturdy emotional makeup 0 professionals say 0 is needed to plunge in and out of the market . so what 's the best way 0 to buy stocks ? `` unless an individual has a minimum of between $ 50,000 and $ 100,000 0 to invest in stocks , he 's still better off in mutual funds than in individual stocks , in terms of getting enough attention from a competent broker , '' says mr. lipper . still , he adds 0 , `` i could see owning both , given that individuals often have an advantage over big investors in spotting special situations based on their own insights , '' he adds . george douglas , first vice president at drexel burnham lambert inc. , says that individuals have a particular edge now in `` small to medium-size niche companies with exciting earnings prospects '' -- a traditional stomping ground for small investors . this growth sector , which usually carries a price\/earnings multiple about twice that of the standard & poor 's 500 , happens to include some of the market 's most attractive bargains right now . `` it 's now selling at a multiple about even with the market , '' says mr. douglas . moreover , mr. douglas sees a revival of institutional interest in smaller growth stocks that could boost the performance of these stocks in the medium term . many big wall street brokerage firms who eliminated their research effort in stocks of emerging growth companies a few years ago are now resuming coverage of this area , he notes 0 . `` we 're seeing a real turnaround in interest in small growth stocks , '' he says . the pros strenuously advise individuals to stay away from the latest investment fad . they say 0 that 's especially important this late in the growth phase of the economic cycle , when there 's no robust bull market to bail investors out of their mistakes . friday 's correction presents `` a pretty good buying opportunity , but let 's not speculate at this point in the business cycle , '' says 0 carmine grigoli , chief equity portfolio strategist at first boston corp . `` buy stocks on weakness for their long-term fundamentals , '' he says . in the long run , investment advisers say 0 , most investors will be better off using the dollar-cost averaging method of buying stocks . in this method , a person invests a regular amount every month or quarter into the stock market whether the market is up or down . that cuts the risk , mr. gregory , the san francisco money manager , points out . `` when the market is low , you are buying more shares , and when it 's high , you 're buying fewer shares , '' he says . otherwise , if you put all your money in at one time , by sheer bad luck , you might pick a terrible time , and have to wait three years to get even , mr. gregory says 0 . a disciplined program will work the best , mr. boesel says 0 . `` one of the hardest things 0 to do is to buy stocks when the market is down , '' he says . `` but that 's just the time when you should be buying them . '' compound annual returns , including price changes and income from interest and dividends \* actual performance , not annualized source : ibbotson associates inc .