cathryn rice could hardly believe her eyes . while giving the comprehensive test of basic skills to ninth graders at greenville high school last march 16 , she spotted a student looking at crib sheets . she had seen cheating before , but these notes were uncanny . `` a stockbroker is an example of a profession in trade and finance ... . at the end of world war ii , germany surrendered before japan ... . the senate-house conference committee is used when a bill is passed by the house and senate in different forms . '' virtually word for word , the notes matched questions and answers on the social-studies section of the test 0 the student was taking . in fact , the student had the answers to almost all of the 40 questions in that section . the student surrendered the notes , but not without a protest . `` my teacher said 0 it was ok for me to use the notes on the test , '' he said . the teacher in question was nancy yeargin -- considered by many students and parents to be one of the best at the school . confronted , mrs. yeargin admitted 0 she had given the questions and answers two days before the examination to two low-ability geography classes . she had gone so far as to display the questions on an overhead projector and underline the answers . mrs. yeargin was fired and prosecuted under an unusual south carolina law that makes it a crime to breach test security . in september , she pleaded guilty and paid a $ 500 fine . her alternative was 90 days in jail . her story is partly one of personal downfall . she was an unstinting teacher who won laurels and inspired students , but she will probably never teach again . in her wake she left the bitterness and anger of a principal who was her friend and now calls her a betrayer ; of colleagues who say 0 she brought them shame ; of students and parents who defended her and insist 0 she was treated harshly ; and of school-district officials stunned that despite the bald-faced nature of her actions , she became something of a local martyr . mrs. yeargin 's case also casts some light on the dark side of school reform , where pressures on teachers are growing and where high-stakes testing has enhanced the temptation to cheat . the 1987 statute 0 mrs. yeargin violated was designed to enforce provisions of south carolina 's school-improvement laws . prosecutors alleged that she was trying to bolster students ' scores to win a bonus under the state 's 1984 education improvement act . the bonus depended on her ability to produce higher student-test scores . `` there is incredible pressure on school systems and teachers to raise test scores , '' says walt haney , an education professor and testing specialist at boston college . `` so efforts to beat the tests are also on the rise . '' and most disturbing , it is educators , not students , who are blamed for much of the wrongdoing . a 50-state study released in september by friends for education , an albuquerque , n.m. , school-research group , concluded that `` outright cheating by american educators '' is `` common . '' the group says 0 standardized achievement test scores are greatly inflated because teachers often `` teach the test '' as mrs. yeargin did , although most are never caught . evidence of widespread cheating has surfaced in several states in the last year or so . california 's education department suspects adult responsibility for erasures at 40 schools that changed wrong answers to right ones on a statewide test . after numerous occurrences of questionable teacher help to students , texas is revising its security practices . and sales of test-coaching booklets for classroom instruction are booming . these materials , including macmillan\/mcgraw-hill school publishing co. 's scoring high and learning materials -- are nothing short of sophisticated crib sheets , according to some recent academic research . by using them , teachers -- with administrative blessing -- telegraph to students beforehand the precise areas on which a test will concentrate , and sometimes give away a few exact questions and answers . use of scoring high is widespread in south carolina and common in greenville county , mrs. yeargin 's school district . experts say 0 there is n't another state in the country where tests mean as much as they do in south carolina . under the state 's education improvement act , low test scores can block students ' promotions or force entire districts into wrenching , state-supervised `` interventions '' that can mean firings . high test scores , on the other hand , bring recognition and extra money -- a new computer lab for a school , grants for special projects , a bonus for the superintendent . and south carolina says 0 it is getting results . since the reforms went in place , for example , no state has posted a higher rate of improvement on the scholastic aptitude test than south carolina , although the state still posts the lowest average score of the about 21 states who use the sat as the primary college entrance examination . critics say 0 south carolina is paying a price by stressing improved test scores so much . friends of education rates south carolina one of the worst seven states in its study on academic cheating . says 0 the organization 's founder , john cannell , prosecuting mrs. yeargin is `` a way for 0 administrators to protect themselves and look like they take cheating seriously , when in fact they do n't take it seriously at all . '' paul sandifer , director of testing for the south carolina department of education , says 0 mr. cannell 's allegations of cheating `` are purely without foundation , '' and based on unfair inferences . partly because of worries about potential abuse , however , he says 0 the state will begin keeping closer track of achievement-test preparation booklets next spring . south carolina 's reforms were designed for schools like greenville high school . standing on a shaded hill in a run-down area of this old textile city , the school has educated many of south carolina 's best and brightest , including the state 's last two governors , nobel prize winning physicist charles townes and actress joanne woodward . but by the early 1980s , its glory had faded like the yellow bricks of its broad facade . `` it was full of violence and gangs and kids cutting class , '' says linda ward , the school 's principal . `` crime was awful , test scores were low , and there was no enrollment in honors programs . '' mrs. ward took over in 1986 , becoming the school 's seventh principal in 15 years . her immediate predecessor suffered a nervous breakdown . prior to his term , a teacher bled to death in the halls , stabbed by a student . academically , mrs. ward says 0 , the school was having trouble serving in harmony its two disparate , and evenly split , student groups : a privileged white elite from old monied neighborhoods and blacks , many of them poor , from run-down , inner city neighborhoods . mrs. ward resolved to clean out `` deadwood '' in the school 's faculty and restore safety , and she also had some new factors working in her behalf . one was statewide school reform , which raised overall educational funding and ushered in a new public spirit for school betterment . another was nancy yeargin , who came to greenville in 1985 , full of the energy and ambitions that reformers wanted to reward . `` being a teacher just became my life , '' says the 37-year-old mrs. yeargin , a teacher for 12 years before her dismissal . `` i loved the school , its history . i even dreamt about school and new things 0 to do with my students . '' while mrs. ward fired and restructured staff and struggled to improve curriculum , mrs. yeargin worked 14-hour days and fast became a student favorite . in 1986-87 and 1987-88 , she applied for and won bonus pay under the reform law . encouraged by mrs. ward , mrs. yeargin taught honor students in the state `` teacher cadet '' program , a reform creation designed to encourage good students to consider teaching as a career . she won grant money for the school , advised cheerleaders , ran the pep club , proposed and taught a new `` cultural literacy '' class in western civilization and was chosen by the school pta as `` teacher of the year . '' `` she was an inspirational lady ; she had it all together , '' says laura dobson , a freshman at the university of south carolina who had mrs. yeargin in the teacher-cadet class last year . she says that because of mrs. yeargin she gave up ambitions in architecture and is studying to become a teacher . mary beth marchand , a greenville 11th grader , also says 0 mrs. yeargin inspired her to go into education . `` she taught us more in western civilization than i 've ever learned in other classes , '' says kelli green , a greenville senior . in the classroom , students say 0 , mrs. yeargin distinguished herself by varying teaching approaches -- forcing kids to pair up to complete classroom work or using college-bowl type competitions . on weekends , she came to work to prepare study plans or sometimes , even to polish the furniture in her classroom . `` she just never gave it up , '' says mary marchand , mary beth 's mother . `` you 'd see her correcting homework in the stands at a football game . '' some fellow teachers , however , viewed mrs. yeargin as cocky and too yielding to students . mrs. ward says 0 she often defended her to colleagues who called her a grandstander . pressures began to build . friends told her 0 she was pushing too hard . because of deteriorating hearing , she told colleagues 0 she feared 0 she might not be able to teach much longer . mrs. yeargin 's extra work was also helping her earn points in the state 's incentive-bonus program . but the most important source of points was student improvement on tests . huge gains by her students in 1987 and 1988 meant a total of $ 5,000 in bonuses over two years -- a meaningful addition to her annual salary of $ 23,000 . winning a bonus for a third year was n't that important to her , mrs. yeargin insists 0 . but others at greenville high say 0 she was eager to win -- if not for money , then for pride and recognition . mary elizabeth ariail , another social-studies teacher , says 0 she believed 0 mrs. yeargin wanted to keep her standing high so she could get a new job that would n't demand good hearing . indeed , mrs. yeargin was interested in a possible job with the state teacher cadet program . last march , after attending a teaching seminar in washington , mrs. yeargin says 0 she returned to greenville two days before annual testing feeling that she had n't prepared her low-ability geography students adequately . when test booklets were passed out 48 hours ahead of time , she says 0 she copied questions in the social studies section and gave the answers to students . mrs. yeargin admits 0 she made a big mistake but insists 0 her motives were correct . `` i was trying to help kids in an unfair testing situation , '' she says . `` only five of the 40 questions were geography questions . the rest were history , sociology , finance -- subjects 0 they never had . '' mrs. yeargin says that she also wanted to help lift greenville high school 's overall test scores , usually near the bottom of 14 district high schools in rankings carried annually by local newspapers . mostly , she says 0 , she wanted to prevent the damage to self-esteem that her low-ability students would suffer from doing badly on the test . `` these kids broke my heart , '' she says . `` a whole day goes by and no one even knows 0 they 're alive . they desperately needed somebody who showed 0 they cared for them , who loved them . the last thing 0 they needed was another drag-down blow . '' school officials and prosecutors say 0 mrs. yeargin is lying . they found students in an advanced class a year earlier who said 0 she gave them similar help , although because the case was n't tried in court , this evidence was never presented publicly . `` that pretty much defeats any inkling that she was out to help the poor underprivileged child , '' says joe watson , the prosecutor in the case , who is also president of greenville high school 's alumni association . mrs. yeargin concedes that she went over the questions in the earlier class , adding : `` i wanted to help all '' students . mr. watson says 0 mrs. yeargin never complained to school officials that the standardized test was unfair . `` do i have much sympathy for her ? '' mr. watson asks . `` not really . i believe in the system . i believe 0 you have to use the system to change it . what she did was like taking the law into your own hands . '' mrs. ward says that when the cheating was discovered , she wanted to avoid the morale-damaging public disclosure that a trial would bring . she says 0 she offered mrs. yeargin a quiet resignation and thought 0 she could help save her teaching certificate . mrs. yeargin declined . `` she said something like ` you just want to make it easy for the school . ' i was dumbfounded , '' mrs. ward recalls . `` it was like someone had turned a knife in me . '' to the astonishment and dismay of her superiors and legal authorities -- and perhaps as a measure of the unpopularity of standardized tests -- mrs . yeargin won widespread local support . the school-board hearing at which she was dismissed was crowded with students , teachers and parents who came to testify on her behalf . supportive callers decried unfair testing , not mrs. yeargin , on a local radio talk show on which she appeared . the show did n't give the particulars of mrs. yeargin 's offense , saying only that she helped students do better on the test . `` the message to the board of education out of all this is 0 we 've got to take a serious look at how we 're doing our curriculum and our testing policies in this state , '' said the talk-show host . editorials in the greenville newspaper allowed that mrs. yeargin was wrong , but also said 0 the case showed how testing was being overused . the radio show `` enraged us , '' says mrs. ward . partly because of the show , mr. watson says 0 , the district decided not to recommend mrs. yeargin for a first-time offenders program that could have expunged the charges and the conviction from her record . and legal authorities cranked up an investigation worthy of a murder case . over 50 witnesses , mostly students , were interviewed . at greenville high school , meanwhile , some students -- especially on the cheerleading squad -- were crushed . `` it 's hard to explain to a 17-year-old why someone 0 they like had to go , '' says mrs. ward . soon , t-shirts appeared in the corridors that carried the school 's familiar red-and-white ghs logo on the front . on the back , the shirts read , `` we have all the answers . '' many colleagues are angry at mrs. yeargin . `` she did a lot of harm , '' says cathryn rice , who had discovered the crib notes . `` we work damn hard at what we do for damn little pay , and what she did cast unfair aspersions on all of us . '' but several teachers also say 0 the incident casts doubt on the wisdom of evaluating teachers or schools by using standardized test scores . says gayle key , a mathematics teacher , `` the incentive pay thing has opened up a can of worms . there may be others doing what she did . '' mrs. yeargin says 0 she pleaded guilty because she realized 0 it would no longer be possible to win reinstatement , and because she was afraid of further charges . mrs. ward , for one , was relieved . despite the strong evidence against mrs. yeargin , popular sentiment was so strong in her favor , mrs. ward says 0 , that `` i 'm afraid 0 a jury would n't have convicted her .