high-definition television promises to be the tv of tomorrow , so it is a natural multibillion-dollar market . although major u.s. manufacturers have all but ceded the main segment of that future business to japan , not everyone here is ready to give up . a handful of small u.s. companies are struggling to develop the technology 0 to build the screens for the thin , high-quality televisions that are expected to hang on living room walls by the end of the 1990s . with only small help from the government , these start-up concerns are trying to compete with the goliaths of the japanese consumer electronics industry , which enjoy considerable backing from the japanese government . photonics technology inc. of northwood , ohio , aims to use a new form of plasma technology to put movie-quality images on a tv display that is 40 inches in diameter but only a few inches thick . planar systems inc. of beaverton , ore. , the largest of these firms , with $ 20 million in annual revenue , has similar plans . it already has had success in electroluminescence , another promising technology adaptable for high-definition television . two other firms , ovonic imaging systems inc. of troy , mich. , and magnascreen corp. of pittsburgh are developing a variation of the flat-panel screens called active-matrix liquid crystal displays . the new technologies are intended to retire the cathode-ray tube , which accounts for most of the bulk of the conventional tv set . replacing the cathode-ray tube with a large , thin screen is the key to the creation of a high-definition television , or hdtv , which is expected to become a $ 30 billion business world-wide within a decade . large u.s. companies are interested in other segments of the hdtv business , such as signal-processing and broadcast equipment . but except for zenith electronics corp. and international business machines corp. , which is collaborating with toshiba on computer displays , they are poorly positioned to exploit advances in large panels . general electric co. recently sold off its interests in liquid-crystal displays to thompson-csf of france . `` we found the market not developing as we thought 0 it would , '' a ge spokesman says . the small u.s. firms are persisting because of their strong positions in patents , and because the prize is still there to be seized . `` no one yet has shown the ability to manufacture these panels '' at commercial costs , says 0 zvi yaniv , the president of ovonic imaging . he says 0 he thinks 0 his company is just a few years from doing that . the bush administration , hearing conflicting advice about what its role in hdtv should be , is n't doing much for now . the only material support 0 it is extending to the struggling u.s. industry is $ 30 million in awards from the pentagon 's defense advanced research projects agency . the darpa funds are a pittance compared with what japan and other prospective competitors are spending . the commerce department estimates that japanese government and industry spending on hdtv research is already over $ 1 billion . `` unless it gets more help , the u.s. industry wo n't have a chance , '' says peter friedman , photonics 's executive vice president . thus far , almost all of the basic technology relating to high-definition television has come from u.s. laboratories . but peter brody , magnascreen 's president , says 0 japanese companies are poised to snatch the technology and put it to commercial use , just as they did with earlier u.s. innovations in color television and video recording . in the 1970s , mr. brody helped develop the first display panels based on active-matrix liquid crystals at westinghouse electric corp. 's research labs in pittsburgh . the panels are like oversized semiconductors surfaced with a million or more picture elements , each contributing to the color and tone of a tv image . in 1979 , however , westinghouse abandoned the project along with its stake in advanced television . mr. brody left the company to find other backers . he has a claim to the right to commercialize the westinghouse patents , but he contends that those patents are being infringed by a number of japanese producers . `` most american investors have just given up , '' mr. brody says . `` they are n't prepared to compete in an area where the japanese want to enter . '' many critics question the industry 's need for federal support ; the pentagon justifies its help on national-security grounds . `` we do n't see a domestic source for some of our -lcb- hdtv -rcb- requirements , and that 's a source of concern , '' says michael kelly , director of darpa 's defense manufacturing office . so darpa is trying to keep the industry interested in developing large display panels by doling out research funds . hdtv already has some military applications , such as creating realistic flight simulations and transmitting information to combat commanders . the navy is ordering displays for its aegis cruisers and the army wants smaller versions for its abrams battle tanks . the commerce department also is trying to encourage hdtv because of the benefits that could spin off to the semiconductor and computer industries . `` it is n't just yuppie television , '' argues jack clifford , director of the department 's office of microelectronics and instrumentation . `` the industry will create industrial products such as displays for work stations and medical diagnostic equipment before it acquires a mass consumer market . '' although some hdtv advocates are calling for other forms of aid , such as antitrust relief for research consortia , the small firms simply would prefer more darpa funds . each claims to possess the right technology and wants just a bit more money to make it commercial . they also want u.s. trade policy to reflect the pentagon and commerce department 's concern over their future . they all are strongly opposed to a petition from several japanese tv manufacturers , including matsushita , hitachi , and toshiba , to exempt portable color tvs with liquid-crystal displays from anti-dumping duties that the u.s. imposes on the larger japanese color tvs . and they want the u.s. to help them sell overseas . planar president james hurd says 0 he has to pay tariffs as high as 15 % to sell his display panels in japan and south korea , while panels from those countries enter the u.s. duty-free . `` this is n't a technology issue , but an attitude issue , '' he says . `` we just have n't learned what it takes to compete .