`` feeding frenzy '' -lrb- henry holt , 326 pages , $ 19.95 -rrb- , a highly detailed account of the wedtech scandal , begins on a reassuring note . right up front in the preface , co-author william sternberg gives us an example of his own integrity . when offered a free trip from the bronx , wedtech 's home , to washington , d.c. , by one of wedtech 's principals , he tells the reader , `` mindful of accepting anything of value from those 0 i was writing about , i declined . '' any question as to why an author would believe 0 this plaintive , high-minded note of assurance is necessary is answered by reading this book about sticky fingers and sweaty scammers . bribe by bribe , mr. sternberg and his co-author , matthew c. harrison jr. , lead us along the path 0 wedtech traveled , from its inception as a small manufacturing company to the status of full-fledged defense contractor , entrusted with the task of producing vital equipment for the army and navy . the book revolves around john mariotta , the founder of the company , and fred neuberger , who became his partner soon after wedtech 's creation . although started in 1965 , wedtech did n't really get rolling until 1975 , when mr. neuberger discovered the federal government 's section 8 -lrb- a -rrb- minority business program . this is a johnson-era , great society creation that mandates 0 certain government contracts be awarded noncompetitively to minority businesses . mr. neuberger realized that , although of italian ancestry , mr. mariotta still could qualify as a minority person since he was born in puerto rico . the two partners merely had to falsify the true ownership of the corporation . instead of 50\/50 it became , on paper only , two-thirds mariotta , one-third neuberger , and they were in the program and off to the races . besides being a `` minority-owned company '' wedtech was located in the south bronx , a blighted area , made famous by jimmy carter in his 1976 presidential campaign . the company plugged itself right into carter campaign rhetoric about rebuilding the south bronx and kept using the minority -- south bronx angle through the reagan '80s . starting with congressman mario biaggi -lrb- now serving a jail sentence -rrb- , the company began a career of bribing federal , state and local public officials and those close to public officials , right up to and including e. robert wallach , close friend and adviser to former attorney general ed meese . wedtech did n't just use old fashioned bribery . it made ample use of the modern techniques of influence peddling , retaining politically connected `` respectable '' law firms , investment bankers and political consultants , including reagan confidant lyn nofzinger . when necessary , it sought and received assistance from organized crime . sometimes the bribed became partners in the company . wedtech management used the merit system . if you were especially helpful in a corrupt scheme you received not just cash in a bag , but equity . if you were not an effective crook , you found yourself out in the cold , a fate that eventually befell mr. mariotta , the firm 's semiliterate `` minority '' person . but despite the sensational nature of the revelations and the breezy , easy-to-read tabloid writing style , `` feeding frenzy '' often falls short of gripping reading . none of the scams show much ingenuity : auditors found crookery the first day on the job . wedtech 's scammers simply bribed them to shut up . the scammers themselves were garden-variety low lifes , conspicuous consumers who wanted big houses , mercedes cars , beautiful women , expensive clothes . among the lot of them , not one is wrestling with good and evil , or especially intelligent or even temporarily insane . the one character at least somewhat interesting was irving louis lobsenz , a pediatrician who changed his name to rusty kent london and became a master gambler and author of a book on blackjack . he enters the story toward the end , just in time 0 to get arrested . absorbed in doling out `` feeding frenzy 's '' tidbits , the authors gloss over the root causes of wedtech , namely the section 8 -lrb- a -rrb- federal program under whose auspices the scandal took place . they do at least come around to saying that the courts might want to end `` rigid affirmative action programs . '' programs like section 8 -lrb- a -rrb- are a little like leaving gold in the street and then expressing surprise when thieves walk by to scoop it up . numerous other scandals , among them the ones at hud , have the same characteristics as wedtech . they take place in government programs that seem tailor-made for corruption . why are programs like this not eliminated ? `` feeding frenzy '' does provide a few clues . in and around all levels of government in the u.s. are groups of people who can best be described as belonging to a political insider commercial party . they know that whenever government is redistributing wealth , regulating commerce or maintaining a large defense establishment , there is big money 0 to be made in influencing , brokering or selling the processes and decisions of government . they are our version of the east bloc 's nomenklatura and they have absolutely no wish to see anything change . how many government programs and policies exist because they line the pockets of political insiders ? this is the real issue raised by the wedtech scandal . mr. stern was chairman and chief executive officer of the new york state urban development corp. , 1983-85 .