in east germany , where humor has long been the only way 0 to express political criticism , they 're not laughing about their new leader egon krenz . mr. krenz is such a contradictory figure that nobody has even come up with any good jokes about him . `` you have to have clear feelings about someone before you can make jokes , '' says an east german mother of two who loves swapping political barbs with her friends . `` with krenz , we just do n't know what to expect . '' mr. krenz does n't seem to be the knee-jerk hardliner 0 many initially thought 0 he was when the 52-year-old politburo member was selected last week to succeed erich honecker . but he does n't appear to be ready to make broad changes either . according to east germany 's adn news agency , mr. krenz spoke to soviet leader mikhail gorbachev by telephone over the weekend and acknowledged 0 east germany could learn from moscow 's glasnost policies . already last week , mr. krenz started overhauling east germany 's heavily censored and notoriously boring news media . on thursday , a day after he took office , east german television broke into regular programming to launch a talk show in which viewers call in questions 0 for a panel of officials to answer . the regular nightly news program and daily newspapers are also getting a visible injection of soviet-style glasnost . `` it was quite a shock , '' says a 43-year-old east german shopkeeper . `` for the first time in my life , i was n't sure whether i was listening to our news or west german television . '' other changes , including easing restrictions on travel for east germans , are expected . but whether such moves can win back the confidence of east germans , who have taken to the streets by the thousands in recent weeks to demand democratic changes , depends largely on whether they feel 0 they can trust mr. krenz . and that 's a problem . mr. krenz is not only closely identified with his mentor , mr. honecker , but also blamed for ordering violent police action against protesters this month and for praising china for sending tanks against student demonstrators . `` i hope 0 he grows with the job , '' says rainer eppelmann , a protestant pastor in east berlin . `` the most important thing is that he have a chance . '' although mr. krenz is dedicated to east germany 's conservative vein of communism , there is much about his style that sets him apart from his party comrades . unlike mr. honecker , who tended to lecture people about socialist values , mr. krenz enjoys asking questions . indeed , one of his first actions as leader was to visit a gritty machine factory on the outskirts of berlin and wander among the workers -- a la gorbachev . he was later shown on television , fielding questions . at one point , he asked a worker whether he thought 0 east germans were fleeing the country because of restrictive travel policies . the worker 's tart reply : `` it 's more than just travel . people have a sense 0 the government is ignoring the real problems in our society . '' the exchange was all the more remarkable in that authorities released television footage to western news agencies . this same tendency toward openness impressed a group of visiting u.s. congressmen this spring . rather than trying to `` lecture us , '' says 0 one congressional aide who attended the two-hour meeting , mr. krenz `` wanted to listen . '' rep. ronnie flippo -lrb- d. , ala. -rrb- , one of the members of the delegation , says 0 he was particularly impressed by mr. krenz 's ready admission that east germany needed to change . `` he 's a very tough man , but one who 's also open to arguments , '' adds an aide to west german chancellor helmut kohl . but there 's another side to mr. krenz . born in a baltic town in an area which is now part of poland , he has dedicated his life to the party apparatus . he moved quickly through the ranks with the help of his patron , mr. honecker , and emerged as the heir apparent . barbara donovan , an expert on east germany at radio free europe in munich , says 0 mr. krenz may project a smooth image , but she doubts 0 he 's a true reformer . even if he is , she adds 0 , he appears to have only limited room for maneuver within the communist party 's ruling politburo . against this background , the new east german leader must move quickly to shore up his government 's standing . the sudden growth of the opposition movement , together with the steady outflow of citizens escaping through poland and hungary , has plunged the country into its deepest political crisis since an anti-soviet workers ' uprising in 1953 . `` he does n't have any honeymoon period , '' says a western diplomat based in east berlin . `` but if he 's sharp and quick , he has a chance . '' the diplomat adds that mr. krenz has several things going for him . the east german economy is strong compared with other east bloc nations . and his relative youth could help him project a more vibrant image , contrasting with the perception of mr. honecker as an out-of-touch old man . for average east germans , mr. krenz remains a puzzle . `` either he was n't being real in the past , or he is n't being real right now , '' says a 30-year-old east german doctor . `` either way , i have a problem with how quickly he 's changed . '' the doctor was among dozens of people milling through east berlin 's gethsemane church saturday morning . the walls of the church are covered with leaflets , news clippings , and handwritten notes associated with the country 's political opposition . `` i have to come here to read the walls , '' says the doctor , `` because it 's information 0 i still ca n't get through the newspapers . '' meanwhile , east germany 's growing openness may even allow the state-controlled news media to display a muted sense of humor . television last week carried a new report on east berlin 's main wallpaper factory and the need to boost production . east germans remember a comment a few years ago by kurt hager , the government 's top ideologist , that just because a neighbor hangs new wallpaper , there 's no reason 0 to change your own . his point was 0 there is no reason for east germany to copy soviet-style changes . `` it 's hard to know whether it was intended to be funny , '' says the east berlin shopkeeper , `` but everyone 0 i know laughed about it .