federal investigators have identified the problem in last july 's crash of a united airlines flight in iowa : a structural flaw that developed during the making of a titanium engine disk . for several months , officials at the federal aviation administration and the national transportation safety board have suspected that a metallurgical flaw in the disk led to a crack that ultimately caused the tail engine to break apart in flight . the explosion sent shards of metal flying , severing the dc-10 's hydraulic or control systems , and led to the crash that killed 112 people . but investigators could confirm their theory only after the recent retrieval of a big chunk of flight 232 's tail engine from a cornfield near the sioux city airport in iowa . the safety board will begin four days of hearings on the accident tomorrow in sioux city . among the issues 0 the board will examine is whether united airlines , a unit of ual corp. , should have been able to detect the cracks through maintenance checks . the engine involved was a cf6-6 made by general electric co . anthony broderick , the faa 's acting executive director for regulatory standards and compliance , said that recent tests of the failed engine disk indicate that a flaw -- known as `` hard alpha '' -- occurred in the titanium during its production almost 20 years ago . he said 0 there was n't any way 0 to detect the flaw at that time , and that the process has since been changed to decrease the chance that such flaws would occur . the faa already has ordered that all 232 disks made by the old process be removed from the planes and subjected to an ultrasonic test in a water-submersion chamber . such tests make the faa confident that a sioux city-type accident `` wo n't happen again , '' said 0 mr. broderick . a spokesman for ge said that the company has been working with the faa all along on this issue and `` will comply fully with the required inspections . '' but he also pointed out that the recalls will have no impact on ge 's engine production . the cf6-6 series engines are n't being manufactured any more ; they are only being used in the dc-10 series 10 planes currently in service , he said 0 .