in what is believed to be the first cancellation of a loan to china since the june 4 killings in beijing , an international bank syndicate has terminated a $ 55 million credit for a shanghai property project . the syndicate , led by schroders asia ltd. , agreed last november to provide the loan to asia development corp. , a u.s. property developer . but several weeks ago , in the wake of the beijing killings , the loan was canceled , according to bankers and executives close to the project . asia development and schroders declined to comment on the move . lenders had doubts about the project even before june 4 , but the harsh crackdown , which caused many businesses to reassess their china transactions , `` gave the banks the out 0 they wanted , '' says 0 an official close to the shanghai venture . the decision to cancel the loan exemplifies the tough attitude 0 bankers have taken toward china since june 4 . while some commercial lending has resumed , international lenders remain nervous about china 's economic troubles and foreign debt -- $ 40 billion at the end of 1988 . many loans are being renegotiated , especially those tied to the hotel sector , which has been hit hard by a post-june 4 tourism slump . many bankers view property-sector loans as particularly risky . the canceled shanghai loan leaves asia development , a small concern , saddled with a half-completed 32-story apartment building and heavy debts . the company owes $ 11 million to the shui on group , the project 's hong kong contractor , and a significant , though unspecified , amount in legal fees to coudert brothers , a u.s. law firm , the sources say 0 . the project , known as lotus mansion , has been mired in controversy . when the loan agreement was announced , it was hailed as one of the first western-style financing transactions ever used in china . unlike most loans to china , there was no chinese guarantor . instead , the banks secured a promise from state-owned bank of communications that it would lend asia development the entire $ 55 million at maturity to finance repayment of the original borrowing . the loan was to have matured in just two to three years , as soon as construction was completed . but in a letter sent in august to asia development , schroders said 0 the loan was terminated because the developer had failed to deliver adequate financial data and pay certain fees to the loan-management committee on time , according to officials close to the project . creditors involved in the project contend , however , that the termination actually had nothing 0 to do with these technical violations . instead , the creditors say 0 , the loan fell victim to nervousness about china 's political turmoil , as well as to concern about the loan 's security . the bank syndicate is made up mostly of european banks , but it includes china 's state-owned citic industrial bank . the 11 banks in the syndicate sustained no monetary losses because none of the credit facility had been drawn down .