the scene opens with pinstripe-suited executives -- easterners , obviously -- glued to cellular phones and hightailing it out of town in chauffeur-driven limousines . `` the carpetbaggers , '' snorts the narrator with a texas twang , `` have packed their bags and went . '' but , he continues 0 , `` they 're forgetting 0 we 're all texans . the lone star is on the rise again . '' as the music swells , viewers discover 0 they 're watching a commercial for lone star beer , the pride of texas , a product of g. heileman brewing co. , a la crosse , wis. , unit of bond corp . as the ad 's tone implies , the texas spirit is pretty xenophobic these days , and lone star is n't alone in trying to take advantage of that . from chevy trucks to lipton iced tea to a host of battling banks , the state has been inundated with broadcast commercials and print advertising campaigns celebrating texans and castigating outsiders . while advertisers have long appealed to texans ' state pride and prejudices , the latest trend has been sparked , in part , by the state 's recent hard economic times . that has taken some of the swagger out of natives who like to brag that texas is the only state that was once a nation , but it has increased their legendary resentment of outsiders . in the past , writes 0 houston chronicle columnist jim barlow , outlanders were accepted only after passing a series of tests 0 to prove 0 they had the `` right '' texas attitudes and `` of course they had to be dipped for parasites . '' there is no small irony in the fact that some of the most-jingoistic advertising comes courtesy of -- you guessed it -- outsiders . lone star 's bond corp. parent , for instance , hails from perth , australia . north carolinians , new yorkers , californians , chicagoans and ohioans own texas banks . all kinds of landmark texas real estate has been snapped up by out-of-staters . even the beloved dallas cowboys were bought by an arkansas oil man . `` texas has lost its distinctiveness , leaving texans with a hunger to feel proud about themselves , '' says stephen klineberg , a sociology professor at rice university , houston . `` this plays right into the hands of the advertising agencies . '' for example , the iced-tea radio campaign for thomas j. lipton co. , an englewood cliffs , n.j. , unit of anglo-dutch unilever group , emphatically proclaims : `` real texans do not wear dock-siders -- ever . real texans do n't play paddleball , at least i hope not . this is football country . and another thing -- real texans drink lipton iced tea . '' in developing that theme at interpublic group of cos . ' lintas : new york unit , account supervisor lisa buksbaum says 0 she made a `` couple of phone calls '' to dallas ad friends and reported her `` findings '' to a team of writers . her findings ? `` you know , '' she says , `` stereotypical stuff like armadillos , cowboys and football . '' not exactly sophisticated market research , but who cares as long as the campaigns work . and ad agencies insist that they do . stan richards of richards group inc. , dallas , tells of the texan who saw the agency 's tear-jerking commercial for first gibraltar bank f.s.b. -- complete with the state 's anthem -- and promptly invested $ 100,000 in the thrift 's cds . never mind that first gibraltar is one of the failed texas thrifts taken over by outsiders -- in this case , an investor group headed by new york financier ronald perelman . the north texas chevy dealers recently had a record sales month after the debut of ad campaign that thumbs its nose at elite easterners . and deposits at ncnb texas national bank , a unit of ncnb corp. , charlotte , n.c. , have increased $ 2 billion since last year after heavy advertising stressing commitment to texas . `` obviously , pride sells in texas , '' says a spokeswoman for bozell inc. , omaha , neb. , which represents the ad campaigns usually follow one of three tracks -- stressing the company 's ` texasness , ' pointing out the competition 's lack thereof , or trying to be more texan than texans . ford trucks may outsell chevy trucks in places like `` connecticut and long island , '' sniffs 0 a commercial for chevrolet , a division of general motors corp . the commercial , created by bateman , bryan & galles inc. , of dallas , adds derisively : `` i bet 0 it takes a real tough truck to haul your ivy league buddies to the yacht club . '' because they want a truck that is `` texas tough , '' the commercial concludes 0 , `` texans drive chevy . '' j.c. penney co. , which relocated from new york to suburban dallas two years ago , gently wraps itself in texas pride through a full-page magazine ad : `` taking the long-range view to conserve what is of value to future generations is part of the lone star lifestyle , '' the ad reads . `` it 's part of our style , too . '' according to several ad-agency sources , newcomers to the texas banking market are spending a combined $ 50 million this year to woo texans . meanwhile , surviving texas banking institutions are busily pitching themselves as the only lenders who truly care about the state . the most-strident anti-outsider sentiment among bankers comes from the independent bankers association of texas , although it 's hard to tell from previews of the $ 5 million `` the i 's of texas '' tv campaign . commercials will highlight heart-rending scenes of texas and chest-swelling , ain't-it-great-to-be-a-texan music . supporting banks will sign a `` texas declaration of independents . '' but in introductory material for the campaign , the trade group urges members to `` arm '' for a `` revolution '' against big , out-of-state bank-holding companies . a video sent to association members , featuring shots of the alamo , cowboys , fajitas and a statue of sam houston , does n't mince words . `` texans can sniff a phony a mile away , '' the narrator warns outsiders . `` so , do n't come and try to con us with a howdy y'all or a cowboy hat . '' young & rubicam 's pact young & rubicam , fighting charges that it bribed jamaican officials to win the jamaica tourist board ad account in 1981 , said 0 it will no longer create the tourist board 's advertising . in a statement , alex kroll , young & rubicam 's chairman , said `` under the present circumstances -lcb- we -rcb- have agreed that it is prudent to discontinue that contract . '' young & rubicam has pleaded innocent to the charges . the board would n't comment on its impending search for a new ad agency 0 to handle its estimated $ 5 million to $ 6 million account . ad notes ... . new account : sunshine biscuits inc. , woodbridge , n.j. , awarded its estimated $ 5 million account to waring & larosa , new york . the account had been at della femina mcnamee wcrs , new york . media policy : macnamara clapp & klein , a small new york shop , is asking magazine ad representatives to tell it when major advertising inserts will run in their publications . it says 0 it may pull its clients ' ads from those magazines . coke ads : coca-cola co. said 0 it produced a new version of its 1971 `` i 'd like to teach the world to sing '' commercial . the ad is part of classic coke 's 1990 ad campaign , with the tag line , `` ca n't beat the real thing . '' basketball star michael jordan and singer randy travis have also agreed to appear in ads .