in a surprise move , the british government cleared the way for a bidding war for jaguar plc by agreeing to remove an obstacle to a takeover of the auto maker . trade and industry secretary nicholas ridley told the house of commons yesterday that he will relinquish the government 's so-called golden share in the company as long as jaguar shareholders agree . the golden share restricts any individual holding to 15 % and expires at the end of 1990 . it was in jaguar 's best interests `` for the company 's future to be assured and the present climate of uncertainty resolved as quickly as possible , '' mr. ridley said 0 . mr. ridley 's decision fires the starting pistol for perhaps a costly contest between the world 's auto giants for britain 's leading luxury-car maker . both general motors corp. and ford motor co. have been trying to amass 15 % stakes in jaguar . ford , which already has an unwelcome 13.2 % holding , is prepared to bid for the entire company and had lobbied the government to lift the takeover restrictions early . gm has been negotiating a friendly transaction with jaguar that likely would involve joint ventures and an eventual stake of just under 30 % . but the government 's action , which caught jaguar management flat-footed , may scuttle the gm minority deal by forcing it to fight for all of jaguar . `` i ca n't believe 0 they -lrb- gm -rrb- will let ford have a free run , '' said stephen reitman , a european auto industry analyst at ubs-phillips & drew . `` i am sure 0 they will be going for a full bid . '' many investors certainly believe 0 a bidding war is imminent . jaguar shares skyrocketed yesterday after mr. ridley 's announcement , following their temporary suspension on london 's stock exchange . in late trading , the shares were up a whopping 122 pence -lrb- $ 1.93 -rrb- -- a 16.3 % gain -- to a record 869 pence on very heavy volume of 9.7 million shares . in the u.s. over-the-counter market , jaguar shares trading as american depositary receipts closed at $ 13.625 , up $ 1.75 . analysts expect 0 ford will make the first move , perhaps today , with an initial offer of about 900 pence -lrb- $ 14.25 -rrb- a share . such a proposal values jaguar at more than # 1.6 billion -lrb- $ 2.53 billion -rrb- . speculation about a takeover fight has sent jaguar shares soaring in the past six weeks . the share price was languishing at about 400 pence before ford 's sept. 19 announcement of its interest in a minority stake . ford is `` in the driving seat at the moment , '' observed 0 bob barber , an auto analyst at brokers james capel & co . an aggressive ford bid for jaguar would put pressure on gm to make a better offer as the british company 's `` white knight . '' such a countermove could end jaguar 's hopes for remaining independent and british-owned . but it is n't clear how long gm would be willing to fight ford for jaguar . because of their longstanding rivalry , gm just `` wants to make sure 0 ford pays a huge packet for -lrb- jaguar -rrb- , '' said 0 john lawson , an auto analyst at london 's nomura research institute . people close to the gm-jaguar talks agreed that ford now may be able to shut out general motors . `` it 's either going to be a shootout , or there only may be one player in town , '' one person said . another person close to the talks said , 0 `` it is very hard to justify paying a silly price for jaguar if an out-and-out bidding war were to start now . '' in a statement , jaguar 's board said 0 they `` were not consulted about the -lrb- ridley decision -rrb- in advance and were surprised at the action taken . '' the statement emphasized that holders representing 75 % of the shares voting at a special shareholders ' meeting must agree to lift the takeover restrictions . jaguar officials in the u.s. noted that ford , as jaguar 's largest shareholder , now has the power to call for such a meeting . u.s. auto analysts also noted that ford is in the best position 0 to benefit from the large number of jaguar shares that have moved over the past month into the hands of arbitragers waiting for the highest takeover bid . jaguar 's own defenses against a hostile bid are weakened , analysts add 0 , because fewer than 3 % of its shares are owned by employees and management . ford officials in the u.s. declined to comment on the british government 's action or on any plans to call a special jaguar shareholders meeting . but gm officials said 0 they , too , were surprised by the move , which left them to `` consider all our options and explore matters further . '' although gm has u.s. approval to buy up to 15 % of jaguar 's stock , it has n't yet disclosed how many shares it now owns . in a prepared statement , gm suggested 0 its plans for jaguar would be more valuable in the long run than the initial windfalls 0 investors might reap from a hostile ford bid . `` our intensive discussions with jaguar , at their invitation , '' gm said , `` have as their objectives to create a cooperative business relationship with jaguar that would provide for the continued independence of this great british car company , to ensure a secure future for its employees and to provide an attractive long-term return for its shareholders . '' jaguar was shocked by mr. ridley 's decision , because management had believed 0 the government would n't lift the golden share without consulting the company first . indeed , the government is taking a calculated risk . mr. ridley 's announcement set off a howl of protests from members of the opposition labor party , who accused the thatcher administration of backing down on promised protection for a privatized company . the british government retained the single golden share after selling its stake in jaguar in the conservative government 's decision may reflect its desire to shed a politically sensitive issue well before the next election , expected in late 1991 . `` it 's now a very good time politically 0 to get this over and done with , '' observed daniel jones , professor of motor industry management at the university of cardiff in wales . the government , already buffeted by high interest rates and a slowing economy , has been badly hurt by last week 's shake-up in mrs. thatcher 's cabinet . at the same time , the government did n't want to appear to favor gm by allowing a minority stake that might preclude a full bid by ford . mr. ridley hinted at this motive in answering questions from members of parliament after his announcement . he said 0 he was giving up the golden share `` to clear the way so the playing field is level between all contestants . '' bradley a. stertz in detroit contributed to this article .