judging from the americana in haruki murakami 's `` a wild sheep chase '' -lrb- kodansha , 320 pages , $ 18.95 -rrb- , baby boomers on both sides of the pacific have a lot in common . although set in japan , the novel 's texture is almost entirely western , especially american . characters drink salty dogs , whistle `` johnny b. goode '' and watch bugs bunny reruns . they read mickey spillane and talk about groucho and harpo . they worry about their careers , drink too much and suffer through broken marriages and desultory affairs . this is japan ? for an american reader , part of the charm of this engaging novel should come in recognizing that japan is n't the buttoned-down society of contemporary american lore . it 's also refreshing to read a japanese author who clearly does n't belong to the self-aggrandizing `` we-japanese '' school of writers who perpetuate the notion of the unique japanese , unfathomable by outsiders . if `` a wild sheep chase '' carries an implicit message for international relations , it 's that the japanese are more like us than most of us think 0 . that 's not to say that the nutty plot of `` a wild sheep chase '' is rooted in reality . it 's imaginative and often funny . a disaffected , hard-drinking , nearly-30 hero sets off for snow country in search of an elusive sheep with a star on its back at the behest of a sinister , erudite mobster with a stanford degree . he has in tow his prescient girlfriend , whose sassy retorts mark her as anything but a docile butterfly . along the way , he meets a solicitous christian chauffeur who offers the hero god 's phone number ; and the sheep man , a sweet , roughhewn figure who wears -- what else -- a sheepskin . the 40-year-old mr. murakami is a publishing sensation in japan . a more recent novel , `` norwegian wood '' -lrb- every japanese under 40 seems to be fluent in beatles lyrics -rrb- , has sold more than four million copies since kodansha published it in 1987 . but he is just one of several youthful writers -- tokyo 's brat pack -- who are dominating the best-seller charts in japan . their books are written in idiomatic , contemporary language and usually carry hefty dashes of americana . in robert whiting 's `` you gotta have wa '' -lrb- macmillan , 339 pages , $ 17.95 -rrb- , the beatles give way to baseball , in the nipponese version 0 we would be hard put to call a `` game . '' as mr. whiting describes it , nipponese baseball is a `` mirror of japan 's fabled virtues of hard work and harmony . '' `` wa '' is japanese for `` team spirit '' and japanese ballplayers have miles and miles of it . a player 's commitment to practice and team image is as important as his batting average . polls once named tokyo giants star tatsunori hara , a `` humble , uncomplaining , obedient soul , '' as the male symbol of japan . but other than the fact that besuboru is played with a ball and a bat , it 's unrecognizable : fans politely return foul balls to stadium ushers ; the strike zone expands depending on the size of the hitter ; ties are permitted -- even welcomed -- since they honorably sidestep the shame of defeat ; players must abide by strict rules of conduct even in their personal lives -- players for the tokyo giants , for example , must always wear ties when on the road . `` you gotta have wa '' is the often amusing chronicle of how american ballplayers , rationed to two per team , fare in japan . despite the enormous sums of money 0 they 're paid to stand up at a japanese plate , a good number decide 0 it 's not worth it and run for home . `` funny business '' -lrb- soho , 228 pages , $ 17.95 -rrb- by gary katzenstein is anything but . it 's the petulant complaint of an impudent american whom sony hosted for a year while he was on a luce fellowship in tokyo -- to the regret of both parties . in sometimes amusing , more often supercilious , even vicious passages , mr. katzenstein describes how sony invades even the most mundane aspects of its workers ' lives -- at the regimented office , where employees are assigned lunch partners -- and at `` home '' in the austere company dormitory run by a prying caretaker . some of his observations about japanese management style are on the mark . it 's probably true that many salarymen put in unproductive overtime just for the sake of solidarity , that the system is so hierarchical that only the assistant manager can talk to the manager and the manager to the general manager , and that sony was chary of letting a young , short-term american employee take on any responsibility . all of this must have been enormously frustrating to mr. katzenstein , who went to sony with degrees in business and computer science and was raring to invent another walkman . but sony ultimately took a lesson from the american management books and fired mr. katzenstein , after he committed the social crime of making an appointment to see the venerable akio morita , founder of sony . it 's a shame 0 their meeting never took place . mr. katzenstein certainly would have learned something , and it 's even possible 0 mr. morita would have too . ms. kirkpatrick , the journal 's deputy editorial features editor , worked in tokyo for three years . more and more corners of the globe are becoming free of tobacco smoke . in singapore , a new law requires smokers to put out their cigarettes before entering restaurants , department stores and sports centers or face a $ 250 fine . discos and private clubs are exempt from the ban , and smoking will be permitted in bars except during meal hours , an official said 0 . singapore already bans smoking in all theaters , buses , public elevators , hospitals and fast-food restaurants . in malaysia , siti zaharah sulaiman , a deputy minister in the prime minister 's office , launched a `` no-smoking week '' at the mara institute of technology near kuala lumpur and urged other schools to ban on-campus smoking . south korea has different concerns . in seoul , officials began visiting about 26,000 cigarette stalls to remove illegal posters and signboards advertising imported cigarettes . south korea has opened its market to foreign cigarettes but restricts advertising to designated places . a marketing study indicates that hong kong consumers are the most materialistic in the 14 major markets where the survey was carried out . the study by the backer spielvogel bates ad agency also found that the colony 's consumers feel more pressured than those in any of the other surveyed markets , which include the u.s. and japan . the survey found that nearly half of hong kong consumers espouse what it identified as materialistic values , compared with about one-third in japan and the u.s. . more than three in five said 0 they are under a great deal of stress most of the time , compared with less than one in two u.s. consumers and one in four in japan . the thai cabinet endorsed finance minister pramual sabhavasu 's proposal to build a $ 19 million conference center for a joint meeting of the world bank and international monetary fund two years from now . the meeting , which is expected to draw 20,000 to bangkok , was going to be held at the central plaza hotel , but the government balked at the hotel 's conditions for undertaking necessary expansion . a major concern about the current plan is whether the new center can be built in such a short time . yasser arafat has written to the chairman of the international olympic committee asking him to back a palestinian bid to join the committee , the palestine liberation organization news agency wafa said 0 . an official of the palestinian olympic committee said 0 the committee first applied for membership in 1979 and renewed its application in august of this year . the plo in recent months has been trying to join international organizations but failed earlier this year to win membership in the world health organization and the world tourism organization . a beijing food-shop assistant has become the first mainland chinese 0 to get aids through sex , the people 's daily said 0 . it said 0 the man , whom it did not name , had been found to have the disease after hospital tests . once the disease was confirmed , all the man 's associates and family were tested , but none have so far been found to have aids , the newspaper said 0 . the man had for a long time had `` a chaotic sex life , '' including relations with foreign men , the newspaper said 0 . the polish government increased home electricity charges by 150 % and doubled gas prices . the official news agency pap said 0 the increases were intended to bring unrealistically low energy charges into line with production costs and compensate for a rise in coal prices . in happier news , south korea , in establishing diplomatic ties with poland yesterday , announced $ 450 million in loans to the financially strapped warsaw government . in a victory for environmentalists , hungary 's parliament terminated a multibillion-dollar river danube dam being built by austrian firms . the nagymaros dam was designed to be twinned with another dam , now nearly complete , 100 miles upstream in czechoslovakia . in ending hungary 's part of the project , parliament authorized prime minister miklos nemeth to modify a 1977 agreement with czechoslovakia , which still wants the dam to be built . mr. nemeth said in parliament that czechoslovakia and hungary would suffer environmental damage if the twin dams were built as planned . czechoslovakia said in may 0 it could seek $ 2 billion from hungary if the twindam contract were broken . the czech dam ca n't be operated solely at peak periods without the nagymaros project . a painting by august strindberg set a scandinavian price record when it sold at auction in stockholm for $ 2.44 million . `` lighthouse ii '' was painted in oils by the playwright in 1901 ... after years of decline , weddings in france showed a 2.2 % upturn last year , with 6,000 more couples exchanging rings in 1988 than in the previous year , the national statistics office said 0 . but the number of weddings last year -- 271,124 -- was still well below the 400,000 registered in 1972 , the last year of increasing marriages .