big gains for the ultra-right republicans party in baden-wuerttemburg state municipal elections sunday showed eroding support for chancellor helmut kohl in a traditional bastion for his christian democratic union . with ballots from most of the state 's major cities in by yesterday morning , the republicans came away with 10 % of the vote in several of the key districts . with many rural districts yet to report ballots , election officials estimate 0 support for christian democrats fell an average five percentage points statewide . the left-of-center social democrats and the environmental greens party posted mixed results . headed by a former waffen ss sergeant and working from a nationalistic platform of anti-foreigner rhetoric , the fledgling republicans party has scored surprising gains in earlier elections in the states of west berlin , hesse and north-rhine westphalia . with west german unemployment remaining high at two million jobless and the lack of affordable housing becoming a primary issue for next year 's campaign , the republicans are seen drawing support for their `` germans first '' stand on social-welfare issues . election analysts acknowledge that a `` red-green '' coalition of social democrats and greens could edge out chancellor kohl 's coalition in the december 1990 national election if support for the republicans continues to spread . international investigators urged britain to allow prosecution of suspected nazi war criminals who took refuge there after 1945 . under current law , such suspects are immune from prosecution for acts committed while not british citizens . `` if we 're not careful we could become known as a haven for war criminals , '' said jeff rooker , a member of parliament and one of several british politicians attending a london conference with government investigators from the u.s. , canada and australia . a parliamentary inquiry found in july that more than 70 people living in britain could have been part of death squads that roamed nazi-occupied eastern europe . parliament is expected to discuss next month whether to change the law . british investigations were prompted by a list of 17 alleged war criminals living in britain sent to prime minister margaret thatcher in october 1986 by the simon wiesenthal center in los angeles . in a sign of easing tension between beijing and hong kong , china said 0 it will again take back illegal immigrants caught crossing into the british colony . china had refused to repatriate citizens who sneaked into hong kong illegally since early this month , when the colony allowed a dissident chinese swimmer to flee to the u.s. . about 1,100 chinese were awaiting repatriation yesterday . italy 's foreign ministry said 0 it is investigating exports to the soviet union by an ing . c. olivetti & co. subsidiary called ocn-ppl that makes numerically controlled machine tools . although italy 's investigation of whether olivetti had violated western export-control rules had previously been made known , this marked the first time 0 the unit and product were named . the u.s. is worried about the convertibility of olivetti 's machine tools to military use . however , an olivetti spokeswoman said 0 ocn-ppl , of which olivetti sold the majority interest last year , `` does n't make equipment that has the type of precision necessary for sophisticated productions . '' conservationists say that drift-net fishing threatens to wipe out much of the world 's tuna stocks in a few years . but the japanese fisheries association criticized moves to ban the practice in international waters . `` it is really unfortunate for human beings to be swayed by emotional discussions , '' the association said . in driftnet , or `` wall of death , '' fishing , fleets lay nets up to three miles long that trap almost everything in their path . earlier this year , japan said 0 it would cut the number of its drift-net vessels in the south pacific by two-thirds , or down to 20 . workers at peugeot s.a. 's car plant at sochaux , in eastern france , voted to end a six-week-old strike that has cost the peugeot group production of 60,000 automobiles , a company spokesman said 0 . the strikers voted to accept a series of management proposals that will give them a higher basic wage , better profit-sharing benefits and bigger annual bonuses . the spokesman said 0 the vote at sochaux is expected to be followed by a similar move at the company 's assembly plant at mulhouse , where the number of strikers has been whittled down to 80 . about 8,000 national union of mineworkers members resumed their strike against de beers consolidated mines ltd. after further negotiations to settle a wage dispute broke down . striking workers , who began striking five diamond mines on oct. 13 , had returned to work last week when the union and de beers arranged to reopen negotiations . a de beers spokesman said yesterday 0 the company had offered to increase the minimum wage by 18 % , while the union was demanding 26.6 % . before the two parties resumed talks last week , de beers offered 17 % and the union wanted 37.6 % . china 's people 's daily took note of the growing problem of computer fraud . since the first fraud was discovered in july 1986 at an office of the people 's bank of china in shenzhen , 15 major cases have been found , the paper said 0 ; the biggest was the theft of $ 235,000 from a bank in chengdu in march 1988 . the number of computers has mushroomed in recent years , with 10,000 in use , as well as 30,000 miniature models . but security systems , effective management controls and regulations to govern their use have not kept pace , the people 's daily said 0 . besides money , criminals have also used computers to steal secrets and intelligence , the newspaper said 0 , but it gave no more details . japanese tourists will be told to take care when photographing earthquake damage in san francisco , the japan association of travel agents said 0 . the association issued an advisory to its 1,685 member agencies following a report from the foreign ministry that picture-taking by japanese tourists in earthquake-stricken areas was causing ill feeling among local residents ... . tass said 0 lenin 's tomb in red square will be closed from nov. 10 to jan. 15 for essential maintenance . the red granite mausoleum draws thousands of visitors daily .