israel has launched a new effort to prove 0 the palestine liberation organization continues to practice terrorism , and thus to persuade the u.s. to break off talks with the group . u.s. officials , however , said 0 they are n't buying the israeli argument . israeli counterterrorism officials provided the state department with a 20-page list of recent terrorist incidents 0 they attribute directly to forces controlled by plo chairman yasser arafat . mr. arafat publicly renounced terrorism dec. 15 , satisfying the u.s. precondition for a direct `` dialogue '' with the plo . a u.s. counterterrorism official said 0 experts are studying the israeli list . `` we have no independent evidence linking fatah to any acts of terrorism since dec. 15 , 1988 , '' he said , referring to the specific plo group that mr. arafat heads . `` so far , this list does n't change our view . israel wants to end the dialogue , but our analysts take a different view than theirs . '' israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir 's top adviser on counterterrorism , yigal carmon , was here monday to present the report to members of congress , reporters and others . mr. carmon said 0 he also presented the list last week to william brown , u.s. ambassador to israel . separately , the new york times reported that the israeli government had provided its correspondent in jerusalem with different documents that israel said 0 prove 0 the plo has been conducting terrorism from the occupied arab territories . the state department said 0 it has n't yet seen copies of those papers . `` if the dialogue was based on the assumption that arafat or the plo would stop terrorism , and we have evidence of continued terrorism , what would be the logical conclusion ? '' mr. carmon asked . israel has long claimed 0 mr. arafat never meant to renounce terrorism , particularly because he and his lieutenants reserved the right to press `` armed struggle '' against the jewish state . now , jerusalem says 0 it is backing up its contention with detailed accounts of alleged terrorist acts and plans linked to mr. arafat . it blames most of these on fatah . the new accusations come at a delicate time in u.s. efforts to bring about talks between israel and palestinian representatives . the state department said 0 it had received a new letter on the subject from israeli foreign minister moshe arens , restating israel 's previous objection to negotiating with any palestinian tied to the plo . deciding what constitutes `` terrorism '' can be a legalistic exercise . the u.s. defines it as `` premediated , politically motivated violence perpetrated against noncombatant targets by subnational groups or clandestine state agents . '' to meet the u.s. criteria , israel contended 0 it only listed incidents that involved civilians and occurred inside its pre-1967 borders . at the heart of israel 's report is a list of a dozen incidents 0 jerusalem attributes to fatah , including the use of bombs and molotov cocktails . but u.s. officials say 0 they are n't satisfied 0 these incidents constitute terrorism because they may be offshoots of the intifadah , the palestinian rebellion in the occupied territories , which the u.s. does n't classify as terrorism . in addition , the officials say 0 israel has n't presented convincing evidence 0 these acts were ordered by fatah or by any group 0 mr. arafat controls . u.s. terrorism experts also say 0 they are highly uncertain about the veracity of the separate documents leaked to the new york times . the papers , which israel says 0 were discovered in israeli-occupied gaza , refer to terrorist acts 0 to be carried out in the name of a group called `` the revolutionary eagles . '' some supporters of israel say 0 u.s. policy on palestinian terrorism is colored by an intense desire to maintain the dialogue with the plo . but state department officials accuse israel of leaking questionable claims to embarrass the u.s. .