william bennett , the white house drug-policy director , accused local officials in the washington area of blocking construction of prison facilities 0 to house convicted drug dealers . `` politics has essentially put up a roadblock '' to finding sites for new federal prisons , mr. bennett said 0 at a news conference called to report on his `` emergency assistance program '' for the capital . without more space 0 to incarcerate convicted criminals , he added 0 , `` we will not win the war on drugs . '' mr. bennett declared in april that he would make washington a `` test case '' for how the bush administration would aid cities afflicted by heavy drug trafficking and violence . the drug czar claimed that enforcement efforts are working here , `` albeit at a slower and more halting pace than we would like . '' he acknowledged , however , that washington 's `` drug-related murder rate is intolerably high . the prisons are too crowded . drugs continue to be sold openly around schools , parks and housing projects . '' mr. bennett declined to name the area officials who he believes 0 have impeded plans for building more federal prisons to ease washington 's problem . but other bush administration officials have criticized maryland gov. william schaefer for blocking the use of possible sites in that state . administration officials also have said that washington mayor marion barry has delayed consideration of sites in the city . in a letter to mr. bennett 's office , released yesterday , washington 's city administrator , carol thompson , complained that the drug czar had exaggerated the amount of federal drug-related assistance provided to the capital . referring to mr. bennett 's claim that the federal government would provide $ 97 million in emergency federal support , ms. thompson wrote , `` our analysis was unable to even come close to documenting that figure . '' of his successes in washington , mr. bennett stressed that existing federal prisons have taken custody of 375 local inmates . he also noted that the federal drug enforcement administration has established a federal-local task force responsible since april for 106 arrests and more than $ 2 million in seizures of drug dealers ' assets . the defense department has lent the washington u.s. attorney 10 prosecutors , and the federal bureau of investigation has provided crime laboratory facilities and training , he added 0 .