the senate agriculture committee is responding to trading abuses in the futures markets with a far-reaching bill that would become the futures trading practices act of 1989 . the proposed legislation has a laudable goal : to assure the integrity of the u.s. futures markets . however , as is common with sweeping legislation , the proposal contains many provisions that could destroy important parts of the system 0 it sets out to preserve . the complex bill , introduced by sens. patrick leahy -lrb- d. , vt. -rrb- , richard lugar -lrb- r. , ind. -rrb- , and bob kerrey -lrb- d. , neb. -rrb- , covers a wide range of provisions that would affect the funding and authority of the commodity futures trading commission and would profoundly change the way 0 the industry is regulated . these include provisions relating to the technology and systems that must be employed by exchanges , oversight and disciplinary procedures for exchange trading practices , the relationship between commodity brokerage firms and floor traders , and exchange governance . the bill also elevates even minor rule infractions to felonies and provides for recovery of punitive damages in civil lawsuits and arbitration cases without any showing of willful misconduct . many aspects of the bill are salutary , providing appropriate public safeguards that can and should be instituted throughout the industry . indeed , some of the bill 's requirements , including broad representation on the exchanges ' boards of directors and strong measures to prevent conflicts of interest , already have been put in place by the coffee , sugar & cocoa exchange and other futures exchanges . other aspects of the bill , however , are either structured in ways that create unnecessary burdens for the industry or actually are harmful to the exchanges , the industry and ultimately the general public . one of the most prominent features is the requirement that in three years all exchanges have in place a system that records all trades by a source independent of the executing broker . the new york futures exchanges have been working together to develop a trade recording system much like the one called for in the bill . we would be delighted to have such a system in place today . but is it realistic for congress to mandate by a rigid deadline a system that has not yet been subjected to feasibility studies ? what if the system does n't work ? what if the only system that does work is so expensive that , at best , only the largest exchanges can afford it ? cost is a key consideration because of the global sweep of the financial markets . the u.s. futures exchanges compete world-wide as never before . today , trading in almost any commodity can be diverted from u.s. markets with just a few strokes of a keyboard . all foreign markets are aggressively courting u.s. business . in fact , several london markets already offer lower costs for trading in the same or very similar contracts . the u.s. exchanges need both market integrity and cost-efficiency ; long-term growth depends on it . the senate bill contains many provisions that will increase the costs of trading . the most arbitrary of these is the imposition of `` service fees , '' which will directly widen the cost spread between u.s. and foreign markets . other provisions have a more subtle , but nonetheless real and detrimental effect on the international position of u.s. exchanges . these include the extension of liability into areas beyond those established by judicial precedent and the expansion of liability 0 to include punitive damages . in addition to increasing costs as a result of greater financial exposure for members , these measures could have other , far-reaching repercussions . one section of the bill would make all commodity brokerage firms and floor brokers liable for damages without willful misconduct . nowhere in the federal securities law is simple negligence or inadvertent action a source of liability under similar circumstances . it is only logical to assume that the enactment of this provision will lead to increased litigation . in an already low-profitmargin business , commodity brokerage firms may well decide to eliminate the risk and expense of dealing with the retail public , depriving the private individual of access to the markets . another measure makes commodity brokerage firms liable for violations committed by independent floor brokers who execute trades for them . this untried concept would expose these firms to potentially astronomical punitive damages . faced with the virtually impossible task of supervising the execution of each trade , many commodity brokerage firms are likely to stop doing business with independents and instead hire their own salaried floor brokers . this would force out of business many of the individuals and small firms that function as floor brokers . a consequence of their departure could be a serious diminution of market liquidity . finally , under the bill , a number of legitimate , longstanding business practices would be arbitrarily banned , unless the cftc were to take specific and timely action to permit them to continue . in other words , regulation will occur through inaction and happenstance , rather than through a normal deliberative procedure . the affected practices include the placing of oral orders , which is the way 0 most public customer orders are placed , and trading between affiliated brokers , even though in some cases trading with affiliates may be the only way 0 to obtain the best execution for a client . also precluded would be dual trading , whereby a broker trades for customers as well as his own account , a practice that provides needed liquidity to the markets . all u.s. futures exchanges agree that these and other trading practices require proper regulation and supervision . nonetheless , each has too much potential value to the system to be banned by legislative fiat before the cftc carefully considers all the consequences of a ban and what the regulatory alternatives are . the markets are complex , as is the environment in which they function . when problems surface , the temptation becomes strong to summarily overhaul a market system that has served for more than 100 years . that temptation must be put aside to permit careful consideration of all the implications , positive and negative , of the proposed resolutions to those problems , and to avoid creating a marketplace where no one trades . mr. nastro is chairman of the coffee , sugar & cocoa exchange in new york and director of commodity administration at shearson lehman hutton .