some lousy earnings reports whacked the stock market , but bond prices fell only slightly and the dollar rose a little against most major currencies . the dow jones industrial average tumbled 39.55 points , to 2613.73 , in active trading . long-term treasury bonds ended slightly higher . the dollar rose modestly against the mark and the yen , but soared against the pound following the resignation of britain 's chancellor of the exchequer , nigel lawson . analysts have complained that third-quarter corporate earnings have n't been very good , but the effect hit home particularly hard yesterday . compaq computer nose-dived $ 8.625 a share , to $ 100 , and pulled other technology issues lower after reporting lower-than-expected earnings after the stock market closed wednesday . later yesterday the nation 's major auto makers added to the gloom when they each reported 0 their core auto operations were net losers in the third quarter . the less-than-robust third-quarter results came amid renewed concern about the volatility of stock prices and the role of computer-aided program trading . taken together , the worries prompted a broad sell-off of stocks . the number of stocks on the new york stock exchange that fell in price yesterday exceeded 1,000 , a key measure of underlying sentiment among technical analysts . although the government said 0 the economy grew an estimated 2.5 % in the third quarter , in line with expectations , analysts are increasingly predicting much more sluggish growth -- and therefore more corporate earnings disappointments -- for the fourth quarter . `` there are a lot more downward revisions of earnings forecasts than upward revisions , '' said abby joseph cohen , a market strategist at drexel burnham lambert . `` people are questioning corporate profits as a pillar of support for the equity market . '' the bond market was unmoved by the economic statistics . while bond investors would have preferred growth to be a little slower , they were cheered by inflation measures in the data that showed prices rising at a modest annual rate of 2.9 % . that is another small encouragement for the federal reserve to lower interest rates in coming weeks , they reasoned 0 . in major market activity : stock prices fell sharply in active trading . volume on the new york stock exchange totaled 175.2 million shares . declining issues on the big board outstripped gainers 1,141 to 406 . bond prices were barely higher . the treasury 's benchmark 30-year rose fractionally . yield on the issue was 7.88 % . the dollar rose modestly against most major currencies . in late new york trading the dollar was at 1.8400 marks and 142.10 yen compared with 1.8353 marks and 141.52 yen wednesday . the dollar soared against the pound , which was at $ 1.5765 compared with $ 1.6145 wednesday .