garry kasparov went to combat sunday with the world 's most advanced chess computer and kicked it around -- symbolically , anyway -- like an old tin can . playing black in the first game , the human champion maneuvered deep thought , known for its attacking prowess , into a totally passive position . then he unleashed his own , unstoppable , attack . and in the second game , with mr. kasparov advancing ferociously as white , d.t. offered feeble resistance and lost even faster . well , mankind can rest easier for now . though almost everybody at the playing site had been looking for the 26-year-old soviet to beat the pennsylvania-based computer , he gave the machine a far worse drubbing than many expected . and when mr. kasparov strode into the playing hall , he called the outcome . as if he were iron mike , about to enter the ring with a 98-pound weakling , he declared : `` i 'll be able to beat any computer for the next five years . '' his strategy against d.t. was based on a thorough study of dozens of its games , he said 0 , including its notorious whippings of the grandmasters bent larsen of denmark and robert byrne of the u.s. . mr. kasparov was underwhelmed . `` the computer 's mind is too straight , too primitive , '' lacking the intuition and creativity needed to reach the top , he said 0 . the champion apparently was not worried at all about d.t. 's strong points . its chief builder , taiwan-born feng-hsiung hsu , nicknamed his brainchild `` the weasel '' for its tactical flair at wriggling out of horrible positions . d.t. also has a prodigious and flawless memory , is utterly fearless , and could n't be distracted by the sexy nude sculptures spread around the playing hall , in the new york academy of art . in fact , d.t. never left home , carnegie mellon university in pittsburgh , but communicated with its human handlers by telephone link . they conceded that the odds favored mr. kasparov , but they put their hope in d.t. 's recently enhanced capacity for examining positions -- up to a million per second , from 720,000 . but the handlers mistakenly stuck with silicon chips ; they needed kryptonite . this became apparent as game one , a sicilian defense by mr. kasparov , proceeded . no human can examine millions of moves , but mr. kasparov , using his ineffably powerful brain , consistently found very good ones . after eight moves by each side , the board was the same as in a game in which nigel short of great britain fought the champion to a draw in 1980 . but the computer did n't play mr. short 's ninth move , a key pawn thrust , and its position deteriorated rapidly . instead of castling , a standard measure 0 to safeguard the king , d.t. made a second-rate rook maneuver at move 13 ; then it put a knight offside on move 16 . `` only two classes of minds would think of this -- very weak human players , and computers , '' said edmar mednis , the expert commentator for the match , which was attended by hundreds of chess fans . by move 21 , d.t. had fallen into a deep positional trap . it allowed mr. kasparov to exchange his dark-squared bishop for one of d.t. 's knights . bishops usually are worth slightly more than knights , but in this case mr. kasparov was left with a very dangerous knight and d.t. 's surviving bishop was reduced to passivity . indeed , it looked more like a pawn , a `` tall pawn , '' as spectators snidely put it . consistently , d.t. was over-optimistic about its chances , which it continually sized up , in numerical form . when most spectators thought its position hopeless , the computer thought 0 it was only , in effect , one-half of a pawn down . such evaluations met with derision , and kept the machine from resigning as soon as humans would have -- prompting more derision . while d.t. shuffled its king back and forth in a defensive crouch , mr. kasparov maneuvered the knight to a dominant outpost . he also launched a kingside storm , sacrificing a pawn to denude d.t. 's king . no amount of weasling could have saved this game for d.t . a piece down , the computer resigned . now , with the crowd in the analysis room smelling figurative blood , the only question seemed to be how fast mr. kasparov could win game two . with the advantage of playing white -lrb- which moves first -rrb- , mr. kasparov followed up cleverly against the computer 's defense , a queen 's gambit accepted . as early as move six , mr. kasparov deviated from a well-known sequence of moves , developing a knight instead of making a standard bishop attack against the computer 's advanced knight . this left the computer with a broader range of plausible replies -- and it immediately blundered by moving a queenside pawn , to the neglect of kingside development . `` in a new position just after the opening , a computer will have serious problems , '' mr. kasparov said later . in such positions , he explained 0 , `` you have to create something new , and the computer is n't able to do that right now . '' after only 11 moves for each side , the computer 's position was shaky . greedily , it grabbed a pawn , at the cost of facing a brutal attack . and when a defensive move was called for , d.t. passed up an obvious pawn move and instead exposed its queen to immediate tactical threats . mr. kasparov remarked later that `` even a weak club player '' would have avoided the queen move . now , after only a dozen moves , spectators were looking for a mating combination . on a demonstration board , emcee shelby lyman showed a quick kill initiated by a knight sacrifice ; no spectator refuted this line of play . mr. kasparov 's continuation was slower but , in the end , just as deadly . he won d.t. 's queen for two minor pieces and two pawns -- not enough compensation , in this position , 0 to give the computer much hope . in a hopeless position , the computer resigned rather than make its 37th move . and mr. kasparov , to cheers and applause , marched back into the analysis room . `` in both games i got exactly what i wanted , '' he said . what he had demonstrated , he added 0 , is that there 's more to chess than sheer calculation . undeterred , d.t. 's handlers vowed to press on . indeed , three of them will be building a successor machine for international business machines corp . promises feng-hsiung hsu : `` in three years we 'll mount a better challenge . '' mr. tannenbaum is a reporter in the journal 's new york bureau .