the government issues its first reading on third-quarter real gross national product this week in a report that is expected to disclose much tamer inflation . the consensus view on real gnp , the total value of the nation 's output of goods and services adjusted for inflation , calls for a 2.3 % gain , down from the second quarter 's 2.5 % , according to mms international , a unit of mcgraw-hill inc. , new york . but inflation , as measured by the gnp deflator in thursday 's report , is expected to rise only 3.5 % , down from 4.6 % in the second quarter . `` inflation could be a real surprise , '' said samuel d. kahan , chief financial economist at kleinwort benson government securities inc. , in chicago . `` if that gets people excited , it could serve as an impetus to the fixed-income markets to lower their rates , '' he added . the week 's other notable indicators include mid-october auto sales , september durable goods orders as well as september personal income , personal consumption and the saving rate . most are expected to fall below previous-month levels . many economists see even slower gnp growth for the remainder of the year , with some leaning more strongly toward a possible recession . in addition to softer production data , weaker housing starts and lower corporate profits currently in evidence , some analysts believe 0 the two recent natural disasters -- hurricane hugo and the san francisco earthquake -- will carry economic ramifications in the fourth quarter . the recent one-day , 190-point drop in the dow jones industrial average seems to be significant to economists mainly for its tacit comment on the poor quality of third-quarter profits now being reported . `` the stock market is sick because profits are crumbling , '' says michael k. evans , president of evans economics inc. , washington . the economy , he noted 0 , moves the market , not vice versa . on the other hand , mr. evans expects the hurricane and the earthquake `` to take a hunk out of fourth-quarter gnp . '' his estimate of 3.3 % for third-quarter gnp is higher than the consensus largely because he believes 0 current inventories are n't as low as official figures indicate 0 . demand , he believes 0 , is being met from overhang rather than new production . by and large , economists believe 0 the two natural catastrophes will limit economic damage to their regions . edward j. campbell , economist at brown brothers harriman & co. , new york , noted that large increases in construction activity along with government and private relief efforts could offset loss of production in those areas . gary ciminero , economist at fleet\/norstar financial group , providence , r.i. , expects the deflator to rise 3.7 % , well below the second quarter 's 4.6 % , partly because of what he believes 0 will be temporarily better price behavior . he expects real gnp growth of only 2.1 % for the quarter , noting a wider trade deficit , slower capital and government spending and the lower inventory figures . sung won sohn , chief economist at norwest corp. , minneapolis , holds that the recent stock-market volatility `` increases the possibility of economic recession and reinforces the bad news '' from recent trade deficit , employment and housing reports . the consensus calls for a 0.5 % increase in september personal income and a 0.3 % gain in consumption . in august , personal income rose 0.4 % and personal consumption increased 0.9 % . charles lieberman , managing director of financial markets reasearch at manufacturers hanover securities corp. , new york , said 0 hurrican hugo shaved 0.1 % to 0.2 % from personal-income growth , because of greatly diminished rental income from tourism . durable goods orders for september , due out tomorrow , are expected to show a slip of 1 % , compared with august 's 3.9 % increase . as usual , estimates on the fickle report are wide , running from a drop of 3.5 % to a gain of 1.6 % .