k mart corp. agreed to acquire pace membership warehouse inc. for $ 23 a share , or $ 322 million , in a move to expand its presence in the rapidly growing warehouse-club business . the proposed merger comes as k mart 's profit is declining and sales at its core discount stores are rising more slowly than at such competitors as wal-mart stores inc . k mart , based in troy , mich. , recently said 0 net income would fall for the third consecutive quarter , after a 16 % drop in the first half of its current fiscal year . `` the membership warehouse-club concept has great potential , '' the company 's chairman , joseph e. antonini , said in a statement . warehouse clubs typically carry general merchandise and food products , which they sell for close to wholesale prices in no-frills stores . shoppers , many of whom operate small businesses , pay annual membership fees , which provide an income base for the stores . k mart tested the warehouse-club sector last year with its acquisition of a 51 % interest in makro inc . but the makro chain , which operates as a joint venture between k mart and shv holdings n.v. of the netherlands , has only six stores and annual sales that one analyst estimated at about $ 300 million . six-year-old pace , based in aurora , colo. , operates 41 warehouse-club stores . the company had losses for several years before turning profitable in fiscal 1988 . in the year ended jan. 31 , pace rang up profit of $ 9.4 million , or 72 cents a share , after a tax-loss carry-forward , on sales of $ 1.3 billion , and analysts expect its results to continue to improve . `` the company turned the corner fairly recently in profitability , '' said margo mcglade of painewebber inc. , who had been forecasting a 46 % jump in pace 's net income from operations this year and another 42 % increase next year . `` warehouse productivity is really beginning to take off . '' but some analysts contend 0 k mart has agreed to pay too much for pace . `` even if you look at it as a turnaround situation , it 's expensive , '' said wayne hood of prudential-bache securities inc . `` in my opinion , you would only pay that kind of price if you were getting a premier player in the industry . '' ms. mcglade of painewebber raised a more fundamental question about the deal . `` if k mart ca n't get its act together in discounting , why is it spending time 0 worrying about other growing markets ? '' she said , `` i would say 0 k mart 's number one job is to address its market-share loss -lcb- in discount stores -rcb- , which longer-term will lead to improved profit margins . at that point , perhaps diversification would be appropriate . '' but k mart 's mr. antonini is intent on pushing the company into new retail businesses . for instance , k mart is opening big food and general merchandise stores , called hypermarkets , and warehouse-type stores specializing in office products and sporting goods . it also operates waldenbooks , pay less drug stores and builders square home improvement stores . in composite trading on the new york stock exchange , k mart closed yesterday at $ 36 a share , up 12.5 cents . pace rose $ 2.625 to close at $ 22.125 a share in national over-the-counter trading . a k mart spokesman said 0 the acquisition would be financed with short-term borrowings . under terms of the agreement , a k mart subsidiary will soon make a tender offer for pace shares . among the conditions of the offer is that pace shareholders tender a majority of the company 's shares outstanding . the companies said 0 pace would ill continue to operate under its present management .