a few years ago , i was on a panel of journalists that discussed the `` image '' of intercollegiate athletics for an audience of campus information directors and others . we scribblers quickly concurred that not only was the bad rep of big-time college sports richly earned , but also that it could be corrected . competition could be maintained -- and stadiums probably would remain full -- if schedules were reduced and the games returned to the students , we said 0 . comments from the audience reflected widespread , if wistful , agreement with those conclusions . as the session broke up , i was approached by a man who identified himself as the alumni director of a big ten university . `` i 'd love to see sports cut back , and so would a lot of my counterparts at other schools , but everybody 's afraid to make the first move , '' he confided . `` it 's like the u.s. and the russians : nobody wants to disarm first . '' and so our institutions of higher learning lurch from scandal to scandal on gridiron and basketball court , while the casualties mount . three new books make the point that one large price of the glittery college-sports show can be the integrity of the schools that stage it . they are : `` a payroll 0 to meet : a story of greed , corruption and football at smu '' -lrb- macmillan , 221 pages , $ 18.95 -rrb- by david whitford ; `` big red confidential : inside nebraska football '' -lrb- contemporary , 231 pages , $ 17.95 -rrb- by armen keteyian ; and `` never too young to die : the death of len bias '' -lrb- pantheon , 252 pages , $ 18.95 -rrb- by lewis cole . the pick of the group is `` payroll '' ; it should be required reading for every college president . it chronicles how , over a period of a dozen years , southern methodist university bought its way to football respectability in the southwest conference , only to find itself trapped and strangled by the athlete-payoff system 0 it created . the school was the first , in 1987 , to receive the ncaa 's `` death penalty '' -- two years without football -- for repeated rules violations . given current headlines about the university of florida , it may not be the last . the man who brought the bribe to the dallas school was ron meyer , a flashy sort who came in 1975 to rescue a woebegone program , mr. whitford writes 0 . mr. meyer 's personal style was illustrated by his pinning a $ 100 bill to a high-school bulletin board on which other coaches tacked their cards . one recruiter working with mr. meyer was so generous with $ 10 and $ 20 bills that prospects sang `` here comes santa claus '' when he approached . paying players at smu was no casual operation . it involved the athletics director , two different football coaching staffs , and school trustees and governors -- just about everybody , it seemed , but donald shields , the university 's president . there 's a memorable passage in which mr. shields , having finally learned of the practice , expresses his outrage to bill clements , then a university governor -lrb- and now the governor of texas ! -rrb- and oil man edwin cox , chairman of the board of trustees . `` you stay out of it , '' author whitford quotes mr. clements as saying . `` go run the university . '' which was about what mr. shields did , and quietly , until he resigned a few years later , pleading ill health , when the stuff hit the fan . mr. whitford drew on voluminous news media coverage of the smu scandal , and on a university internal investigation . mr. keteyian had to do most of his own digging on university of nebraska football , which is , to date , high and dry as far as the ncaa is concerned . unfortunately , he gets low grades as an investigative reporter , relying heavily on what chicago 's late mayor , richard j. daley , called `` insinuendo . '' discrepancies go unexplained in `` confidential '' -lrb- one ex-player claims 0 he received $ 4,000 to $ 5,000 for his season football tickets while others said 0 theirs brought only a few hundred dollars -rrb- , and when mr. keteyian ca n't nail down something , like who really owned a car driven by husker tailback doug dubose , he simply reprints his notes . there are gratuitous references to supposed romantic liaisons between husker players and a low-level female university employee . a serious charge -- that star flanker irving fryar `` threw '' the 1984 orange bowl game by intentionally dropping a pass in the end zone -- is included , even though the nebraska assistant coach quoted denied making it . still , the book produces more smoke than a smoldering sofa , along with a few flames , especially concerning the use of steroids . dean steinkuhler , a spectacularly bulked-up former lineman , confesses that he used 'em , and says 0 other huskers did too . it 's a mystery how this could have escaped the notice of nebraska coaches . probably , it did n't . `` never too young '' is a different sort of work , focusing on the 1986 death from cocaine ingestion of bias , a university of maryland basketball star ticketed for sure pro stardom . while the university was no more to blame for that than for the similar fate of any other student , it must bear responsibility for its conduct in the aftermath . bias 's coach , lefty driesell , ordered the room in which bias died to be cleaned before the police could arrive -lrb- the order was n't carried out -rrb- , and the school 's athletics director issued false information about the academic standing of bias and other players . those , of course , were the responses of people with something 0 to hide . one wonders how other college athletic officials would behave under the same circumstances . tomorrow 's `` on sports '' column will look at another aspect of the college sports mess .