the continuing series of hud scandals is a sadly predictable result of pork-barrel politics . nevertheless , lobbies such as the national association of home builders -lrb- nahb -rrb- continue to pressure capitol hill for more special-interest spending . kent colton , nahb executive vice president , argues that the u.s. faces a multifaceted housing crisis -- reduced affordability of homes for first-time buyers , increased homelessness , and lower apartment construction rates -- that will be `` very difficult '' to solve `` without expanded federal resources . '' there 's nothing unusual about business groups pushing for more government spending . but the nahb was created in 1943 out of an organization that made its name fighting a roosevelt administration proposal to take over all defense housing production . through the years the association has been an active member of the taxpayer 's coalition , pushing for such initiatives as the balanced-budget amendment . yet on matters close to , er , home ... `` the hud budget has dropped by more than 70 % since 1980 , '' argues mr. colton . `` we 've taken more than our fair share . i would n't have a problem if other programs had taken a similar hit . '' but nahb support for subsidies is not related to the current housing crunch ; over the years the nahb has backed a host of public programs . it once pushed for a national housing production goal set by the federal government and has regularly advanced anti-recession housing measures . moreover , explains one hud official , the nahb remains susceptible to internal pressure from members that specialize in subsidized production . the association is pushing an extensive and expensive wish-list , which would substantially boost spending above the current level of more than $ 15 billion annually . it would like to peg the ceiling on federal housing administration mortgage guarantees to 95 % of the median price in a particular market , instead of limiting it to $ 101,250 ; reduce -lrb- or even eliminate -rrb- fha down-payment requirements and increase the availability of variable-rate mortgages ; expand the veterans affairs department loan guarantee program ; provide `` adequate '' funding for the farmers home administration -lrb- fmha -rrb- ; increase federal funding and tax incentives for the construction of low-income and rental housing , including $ 4 billion in block grants to states and localities ; and `` fully fund '' the mckinney act , a $ 656 million potpourri for the homeless . direct federal subsidies for housing construction have proved intolerably expensive in the past , and inevitably are twisted to the benefit of well-connected developers and lobbyists , as demonstrated by the ongoing hud scandal , or congressmen . indirect subsidies , through the fha , for instance , are little better . though mr. colton says 0 expanding fha lending would result in `` no cost to the government , '' the mere diversion of funds from other parts of the economy and from other forms of housing -lrb- such as low-income -rrb- to the single-family home market would result in a major expense . more important , housing programs run by hud , the va , and fmha are awash in red ink . the fha alone lost $ 4.2 billion in fiscal 1988 ; the government 's equity in the agency , essentially its reserve fund , fell to minus $ 2.9 billion . the federal government has had to pump in $ 2.28 billion into the va housing program since 1984 to keep the fund afloat and the va requested an additional $ 120 million for the fiscal year just ended . all told , the federal government already guarantees more than $ 900 billion of mortgages . in its nicely produced publication `` where will our children live ? '' the nahb does acknowledge that `` of course , the full measure of housing affordability can not be provided by the federal government . '' it points to the pernicious impact of local government regulation , particularly zoning and building fees , which pushes the price of housing out of the reach of low- and middle-income people . but while the nahb has suggested actions that states and localities should take to reduce regulatory barriers , the association has proposed no activist legislative program -- comparable to , say , its detailed request for more federal subsidies -- 0 to eliminate counterproductive controls . the association , a majority of whose 156,000 members build fewer than 25 units a year , is like many other business lobbies . explains sheila macdonald of the national taxpayers union : `` it treads in two worlds . the builders like the subsidies , but at the same time they tend to be fiscal conservatives in terms of major issues , such as the balanced-budget amendment . '' unfortunately , the organization 's desire for pork tends to override its commitment to overall fiscal responsibility . two years ago when the nahb lobbied for the $ 19 billion omnibus housing bill , the organization `` basically dropped out of the taxpayers ' coalition , '' says 0 ms. macdonald . as mr. colton of the nahb acknowledges : `` government is not going to solve the problem ... . the real key is to have the economy working and interest rates down . '' more money for hud will increase the deficit and destabilize the economy ; more money to municipalities that are wrecking their local housing markets will further insulate them from the destructive effects of their policies . is this what the home builders want ? mr. bandow is a cato institute fellow . -lrb- see related story : `` and bills 0 to make wishes come true '' -- wsj oct. 17 , 1989 .