with economic tension between the u.s. and japan worsening , many japanese had feared last week 's visit from u.s. trade representative carla hills . they expected a new barrage of demands that japan do something quickly to reduce its trade surplus with the u.s. . instead , they got a discussion of the need for the u.s. and japan to work together and of the importance of the long-term view . mrs. hills ' first trip to japan as america 's chief trade negotiator had a completely different tone from last month 's visit by commerce secretary robert a. mosbacher . mr. mosbacher called for concrete results by next spring in negotiations over fundamental japanese business practices that supposedly inhibit free trade . he said 0 such results should be `` measurable in dollars and cents '' in reducing the u.s. trade deficit with japan . but mrs. hills , speaking at a breakfast meeting of the american chamber of commerce in japan on saturday , stressed that the objective `` is not to get definitive action by spring or summer , it is rather to have a blueprint for action . '' she added that she expected `` perhaps to have a down payment ... some small step 0 to convince the american people and the japanese people that we 're moving in earnest . '' how such remarks translate into policy wo n't become clear for months . american and japanese officials offered several theories for the difference in approach betwen mr. mosbacher and mrs. hills . many called it simply a contrast in styles . but some saw it as a classic negotiating tactic . others said 0 the bush administration may feel 0 the rhetoric on both sides is getting out of hand . and some said 0 it reflected the growing debate in washington over pursuing free trade with japan versus some kind of managed trade . asked to compare her visit to mr. mosbacher 's , mrs. hills replied : 0 `` i did n't hear every word 0 he spoke , but as a general proposition , i think 0 we have a very consistent trade strategy in the bush administration . '' yet more than one american official who sat in with her during three days of talks with japanese officials said 0 her tone often was surprisingly `` conciliatory . '' `` i think 0 my line has been very consistent , '' mrs. hills said at a news conference saturday afternoon . `` i am painted sometimes as ferocious , perhaps because i have a ferocious list of statutes 0 to implement . i do n't feel very ferocious . i do n't feel either hard or soft . i feel committed to the program of opening markets and expanding trade . '' when she met the local press for the first time on friday , mrs. hills firmly reiterated the need for progress in removing barriers to trade in forest products , satellites and supercomputers , three areas targeted under the super 301 provision of the 1988 trade bill . she highlighted exclusionary business practices that the u.s. government has identified . but her main thrust was to promote the importance of world-wide free trade and open competition . she said 0 the trade imbalance was mainly due to macroeconomic factors and should n't be tackled by setting quantitative targets . at her news conference for japanese reporters , one economics journalist summed up the japanese sense of relief . `` my impression was that you would be a scary old lady , '' he said , drawing a few nervous chuckles from his colleagues . `` but i am relieved to see that you are beautiful and gentle and intelligent and a person of integrity . '' mrs. hills ' remarks did raise questions , at least among some u.s. officials , about what exactly her stance is on u.s. access to the japanese semiconductor market . the u.s. share of the japanese market has been stuck around 10 % for years . many americans have interpreted a 1986 agreement as assuring u.s. companies a 20 % share by 1991 , but the japanese have denied making any such promise . at one of her news conferences , mrs. hills said , 0 `` i believe 0 we can do much better than 20 % . '' but she stressed , 0 `` i am against managed trade . i will not enter into an agreement that stipulates to a percentage of the market .