sotheby 's inc. , the world 's biggest auction house , is taking a huge wall street-style risk on the outcome of the sale of art from the estate of john t. dorrance jr. , the campbell soup co. heir . the financial services division has guaranteed the dorrance family that it will receive a minimum of $ 100 million for the collection , regardless of what the bids for the art works total , people close to the transaction say 0 . the collection , which includes two early picassos , a van gogh , a monet , other paintings , furniture and porcelains , went on sale last night in the first of six auctions . what sotheby 's is doing closely resembles an underwriting by an investment bank . a corporation that wants to sell stock or bonds goes to a wall street firm , which purchases the securities outright , accepting the financial risk of finding buyers . if the investment bank can sell the securities at a higher price than it paid the issuer , it makes a profit . at the initial sale last night , for example -- the sale featuring the impressionists masters -- bids totaled $ 116 million . that was slightly above sotheby 's presale estimate of $ 111 million . normally , sotheby 's would have earned 20 % of the total in commissions . instead , people familiar with the transaction said 0 , the auction house opted to forgo that percentage in order to obtain the collection and in exchange for taking a bigger chunk of proceeds exceeding $ 100 million . art dealers say that while auction houses occasionally guarantee the seller of a highly desirable work of art a minimum price , a financial commitment of this size is unprecedented . diana d. brooks , president of sotheby 's north america division , vehemently denies 0 it offered the dorrance heirs a money-back guarantee , calling such reports `` inaccurate . '' buried in the glossy hardbound catalog for the sale , however , appears the statement , `` sotheby 's has an interest in the property in this catalog . '' explains 0 a sotheby 's spokeswoman , the statement `` means exactly what it says . we have some level of financial interest '' in the collection . `` we do n't disclose specifics . '' frank mirabello , a lawyer for the dorrance estate with the philadelphia law firm of morgan , lewis & bockius , declines to comment on the financial arrangements . sotheby 's made the $ 100 million guarantee to keep the dorrance collection away from its archrival , auction house christie 's international plc ; christie 's has handled smaller sales for the dorrance family over the years . when christie 's officials asked why the firm was n't picked to sell the dorrance collection , representatives of the dorrance family `` told us 0 it was a question of financial considerations , '' said 0 michael findlay , christie 's head of impressionist and modern paintings . collectors who have made their money on wall street have become an increasingly important part of the art business and their money has helped fuel the art boom , but recently it appears 0 sotheby 's has been returning the compliment . in november 1987 , sotheby 's essentially offered a wall street-style `` bridge loan '' of about $ 27 million to australian businessman alan bond to enable him to purchase vincent van gogh 's `` irises '' for $ 53.9 million . it was the highest bid in history for a work of art . but two weeks ago , sotheby 's said that it has the painting under lock and key because the loan had not been fully repaid . sotheby 's is offering such deals because it 's an art sellers ' market , at least where the best works are concerned , says 0 ralph lerner , an attorney and author of the book `` art law . '' `` there seems to be a lot of art for sale , but there 's more competition . the competition gives the seller the ability to cut a better deal , '' he says 0 . the dorrance family will still receive a substantial portion of the auction proceeds above $ 100 million , people familiar with the transaction said 0 . but it 's likely that sotheby 's will take a higher than usual commission , called an override , on the amount exceeding the guarantee . sotheby 's has been aggressively promoting the dorrance sale . at a news conference last may announcing plans for the auction , sotheby 's estimated its value in excess of $ 100 million . more recently , sotheby 's has predicted 0 the collection will fetch $ 140 million . that 's the highest estimate for a single collection in auction history . the decision to put the entire collection on the block stunned many , since mr. dorrance had served as chairman of the philadelphia museum of art , and it had been assumed 0 many of the works would be donated to the institution . at last night 's sale , 13 of 44 works that sold were purchased by aska international gallery , the art-acquisition unit of aichi financial , a japanese conglomerate that owns 7.5 % of christie 's . meanwhile , sotheby 's guarantee is raising eyebrows in the art world . `` the consumer has to throw out the idea that the auction house is a disinterested middleman , '' says new york art dealer david tunick . while he adds that he has no problem with auction houses who sell works in which they have a financial interest , `` it ought not to be hidden in some small print . '' in such situations , he says , the house `` is going to put the best light on things . '' for example , an auction house 's comments on the condition of a work of art that is up for sale should be looked at with `` very open eyes , '' he says 0 . `` there 's more and more of this cash-up-front going on at every level , '' says bruce miller , president of art funding corp. , an art lender . dealers and auction houses `` know 0 if they do n't lay out a half a million for this , another one will ; it 's that competitive . '' in january , two small new york galleries , the coe kerr gallery and beadleston fine arts , snatched a major art collection owned by the askin family away from rival auction-house bidders with an up-front payment of about $ 25 million . a christie 's spokeswoman said that while the auction house sometimes waives its seller 's commission to attract art works -- it still gets a commission from the buyer -- christie 's wo n't offer financial guarantees because `` christie 's believes 0 its primary role is as an auction house , and therefore as an agent -lcb- for buyer and seller -rcb- , not as a bank .