the oakland athletics ' four-game sweep over the san francisco giants in the world series may widen already-sizable losses that the abc network will incur on the current , final year of its baseball contract . the 1989 series , disrupted by a devastating earthquake and diminished in national interest because both teams came from the san francisco bay area , is likely to end up as the lowest-rated series of this decade and probably since the event has been broadcast . the first three games were seen by an average of only 17 % of u.s. homes , a sharp decline from the 23.7 % rating for last year 's series . a final ratings tally from a.c. nielsen co. is due today . the sweep by the a's , whose pitchers and home-run hitters dominated the injury-prone giants , will only make things worse for abc , owned by capital cities\/abc inc . the network had been expected to have losses of as much as $ 20 million on baseball this year . it is n't clear how much those losses may widen because of the short series . had the contest gone a full seven games , abc could have reaped an extra $ 10 million in ad sales on the seventh game alone , compared with the ad take 0 it would have received for regular prime-time shows . abc had based its budget for baseball on a six-game series . a network spokesman would n't comment , and abc sports officials declined to be interviewed . but some industry executives said 0 abc , in anticipation of a four-game sweep , limited its losses by jacking up the number of commercials 0 it aired in the third and fourth games . a world series telecast typically carries 56 30-second commercials , but by the fourth game abc was cramming in 60 to 62 ads to generate extra revenue . abc 's baseball experience may be of interest to cbs inc. , which next season takes over the broadcasting of all baseball playoffs in a four-year television contract priced at $ 1.06 billion . cbs sports president neal pilson has conceded only that cbs will have a loss in the first year . but other industry executives contend 0 the losses could reach $ 250 million over four years and could go even higher if the world series end in four-game romps . the series typically is among the highest-rated sports events on television . last year 's series , broadcast by general electric co. 's nbc , was the lowest-rated series in four years ; instead of featuring a major east coast team against a west coast team , it pitted the los angeles dodgers against the losing oakland a's . abc 's hurdle was even higher this year with two teams from the same area . the series got off to a lukewarm start oct. 14 with a 16.2 % rating ; the next night it drew 17.4 % of homes . then came the earthquake and a damaging delay of 11 days . some people had hoped 0 abc 's ratings would go up because of the intense focus on the event in the aftermath of the earthquake . an analyst 's opinion to that effect even sent capital cities\/abc shares soaring two weeks ago . but interest instead decreased . the third game , last friday night , drew a disappointing 17.5 rating .