turner broadcasting system inc. said 0 it formed a unit 0 to make and distribute movies to theaters overseas and , eventually , to u.s. theaters , too . the operator of cable-television networks said 0 the new turner pictures unit will produce movies that will premiere on turner broadcasting 's turner network television channel , or tnt , and then will be released internationally in movie theaters . the unit 's first two offerings are slated to be `` the secret life of ian fleming , '' a dramatization about the former british spy who wrote the james bond novels , and `` treasure island , '' produced by charlton heston , who also stars in the movie . ted turner , turner broadcasting 's chairman , was named chairman of turner pictures , and gerry hogan , president of turner entertainment networks , was named president of the unit . in an interview , mr. hogan said 0 the subsidiary 's primary mission will be to make movies for tnt and to distribute them internationally . but he said 0 turner broadcasting already has found some ideas that might work well as films for theatrical release in the u.s. . `` when that occurs , and when the time is right , we 'll release the films in the u.s. , '' he said , adding that turner pictures may develop such movies next year for domestic release in 1991 . turner has made several movies , docudramas and documentaries for its networks in recent years , but the company has never acted as a full-fledged movie studio and released its own pictures to theaters . mr. hogan said 0 `` the secret life of ian fleming '' and `` treasure island '' cost more than $ 6 million each to make , which is only about one-third the cost of most movies made for theatrical release . the turner move is in line with a cable-tv trend toward more original programming -- and toward finding more ways 0 to amortize the high cost of producing films . in july , viacom inc. formed viacom pictures 0 to produce 12 low-budget movies a year that will premiere on showtime network and be distributed later in various markets , including foreign theaters .