two old friends , george bush and deng xiaoping , are trying to limit further damage to u.s.-china ties . but as congress prepares a fresh package of sanctions against beijing , the already-tense relationship could get worse . the problem for congress will be to weigh what china is saying to its people against the more conciliatory message 0 it is delivering to the bush administration . in a move apparently aimed at heading off new punitive legislation , mr. deng sent an indirect signal to washington via t.d. lee , a columbia university physicist who met mr. deng and other chinese leaders in beijing last month . when he met with mr. bush on his return , mr. lee says 0 , he told the president that the chinese `` made statements to me that i regard as a first step toward reconciliation . '' the communication 0 mr. lee brought represents the softer line 0 the u.s. has been hoping to hear from chinese officials since the june 4 massacre of pro-democracy demonstrators in beijing . the chinese leader , mr. lee informed mr. bush 0 , expressed some regret for what had happened in beijing and conceded that china 's officials bore some responsibility . mr. lee says 0 mr. deng told him : `` we should not mind those who participated in demonstrations , signed anti-government materials and went on hunger strikes . '' mr. deng added , says 0 mr. lee , that `` we really made mistakes . we must not shirk our responsibility and we can not just blame the demonstrators . '' mr. lee also reported to the president that , in a separate meeting , communist party chief jiang zemin said 0 the chinese leadership `` looked kindly on the students who took part in the demonstrations . '' mr. jiang also pledged that the chinese red cross would publish `` very soon '' a list of those killed . and he told the physicist that china 's leaders were `` very much concerned '' about the deaths and had arranged aid for the victims ' families . `` i transmitted my conversations to the white house , '' prof. lee says . but , he adds , `` i was not acting as a messenger . '' he says that the chinese never asked him to convey their statements to president bush , but that the white house spontaneously invited him to do so . mr. lee concedes 0 the statements made to him are far different from others being issued in china , but attributes that to the fact that the situation in china is `` very complex . '' according to u.s. sources in beijing , the administration hopes 0 mr. deng 's fairly conciliatory comments will prod congress to be cautious about further sanctions against beijing . `` the president does n't want to have legislative sanctions , '' says a u.s. official . `` but he may not have a choice . '' given china 's far-from-conciliatory statements to its own people , mr. bush may be unable to prevent new sanctions . beijing officials have said 0 they will step up the campaign of arrests and intimidation against those who participated in the demonstrations . sentences have been stiff . a university student got eight years for participating in the rallies , sources in beijing said 0 , while an 18-year-old worker got 10 years . nor has beijing hinted to its citizens that it will publish the identities of those killed . so far , the victims are officially considered evil-doers , and their families receive no compensation . a man gunned down by a stray bullet while cycling to work carries , after his death , the official stigma of `` counterrevolutionary , '' his wife says 0 . what 's more , much of china 's official rhetoric is hostile to the u.s. . china frequently lambastes the u.s. embassy for harboring astrophysicist fang lizhi , a political dissident who took refuge there after the massacre . `` in the u.s. , there are still people who want to crush china and interfere in our internal affairs , '' zhu qizhen , china 's new ambassador to the u.s. , said as he left for washington last week . the house and senate are to begin soon hashing out an agreement for sanctions legislation . it will probably be attached to a state department authorization bill , which mr. bush is n't expected to veto . a congressional staffer involved in drafting the sanctions says 0 they are likely to mirror those 0 mr. bush enacted shortly after the massacre . but as legislative action , they would carry greater weight and would be more difficult 0 to rescind . measures already in effect that are expected to be made law include a ban on military sales and exchanges , a suspension of most high-level government contacts and a halt to u.s. trade enhancement programs , such as the overseas private investment corp. and the trade development program . codifying those sanctions could prompt chinese retaliation . `` if the two sides are n't careful , u.s.-china ties could spin downward , out of control , '' says a u.s. official in beijing . `` bush and deng are hoping -lcb- that -rcb- cooler heads prevail .