as small investors peppered their mutual funds with phone calls over the weekend , big fund managers said 0 they have a strong defense against any wave of withdrawals : cash . unlike the weekend before black monday , the funds were n't swamped with heavy withdrawal requests . and many fund managers have built up cash levels and say 0 they will be buying stock this week . at fidelity investments , the nation 's largest fund company , telephone volume was up sharply , but it was still at just half the level of the weekend preceding black monday in 1987 . the boston firm said 0 stock-fund redemptions were running at less than one-third the level two years ago . as of yesterday afternoon , the redemptions represented less than 15 % of the total cash position of about $ 2 billion of fidelity 's stock funds . `` two years ago there were massive redemption levels over the weekend and a lot of fear around , '' said c. bruce johnstone , who runs fidelity investments ' $ 5 billion equity-income fund . `` this feels more like a one-shot deal . people are n't panicking . '' the test may come today . friday 's stock market sell-off came too late for many investors to act . some shareholders have held off until today because any fund exchanges made after friday 's close would take place at today 's closing prices . stock fund redemptions during the 1987 debacle did n't begin to snowball until after the market opened on black monday . but fund managers say 0 they 're ready . many have raised cash levels , which act as a buffer against steep market declines . mario gabelli , for instance , holds cash positions well above 20 % in several of his funds . windsor fund 's john neff and mutual series ' michael price said 0 they had raised their cash levels to more than 20 % and 30 % , respectively , this year . even peter lynch , manager of fidelity 's $ 12.7 billion magellan fund , the nation 's largest stock fund , built up cash to 7 % or $ 850 million . one reason is that after two years of monthly net redemptions , the fund posted net inflows of money from investors in august and september . `` i 've let the money build up , '' mr. lynch said , who added that he has had trouble finding stocks 0 he likes . not all funds have raised cash levels , of course . as a group , stock funds held 10.2 % of assets in cash as of august , the latest figures available from the investment company institute . that was modestly higher than the 8.8 % and 9.2 % levels in august and september of 1987 . also , persistent redemptions would force some fund managers to dump stocks to raise cash . but a strong level of investor withdrawals is much more unlikely this time around , fund managers said 0 . a major reason is that investors already have sharply scaled back their purchases of stock funds since black monday . stock-fund sales have rebounded in recent months , but monthly net purchases are still running at less than half 1987 levels . `` there 's not nearly as much froth , '' said john bogle , chairman of vanguard group inc. , a big valley forge , pa. , fund company . many fund managers argue that now 's the time 0 to buy . vincent bajakian , manager of the $ 1.8 billion wellington fund , added to his positions in bristol-myers squibb , woolworth and dun & bradstreet friday . and today he 'll be looking to buy drug stocks like eli lilly , pfizer and american home products whose dividend yields have been bolstered by stock declines . fidelity 's mr. lynch , for his part , snapped up southern co. shares friday after the stock got hammered . if the market drops further today , he said 0 he 'll be buying blue chips such as bristol-myers and kellogg . `` if they croak stocks like that , '' he said , it presents an opportunity that is `` the kind of thing 0 you dream about . '' major mutual-fund groups said 0 phone calls were arriving at twice the normal weekend pace yesterday . but most investors were seeking share prices and other information . trading volume was only modestly higher than normal . still , fund groups are n't taking any chances . they hope to avoid the jammed phone lines and other snags that infuriated some fund investors in october 1987 . fidelity on saturday opened its 54 walk-in investor centers across the country . the centers normally are closed through the weekend . in addition , east coast centers will open at 7:30 edt this morning , instead of the normal 8:30 . t. rowe price associates inc. increased its staff of phone representatives 0 to handle investor requests . the baltimore-based group noted that some investors moved money from stock funds to money-market funds . but most investors seemed to be `` in an information mode rather than in a transaction mode , '' said 0 steven norwitz , a vice president . and vanguard , among other groups , said 0 it was adding more phone representatives today to help investors get through . in an unusual move , several funds moved to calm investors with recordings on their toll-free phone lines . `` we view -lcb- friday 's -rcb- market decline as offering us a buying opportunity as long-term investors , '' a recording at gabelli & co. funds said over the weekend . the janus group had a similar recording for investors . several fund managers expect a rough market this morning before prices stabilize . some early selling is likely to stem from investors and portfolio managers who want to lock in this year 's fat profits . stock funds have averaged a staggering gain of 25 % through september , according to lipper analytical services inc . elaine garzarelli , who runs shearson lehman hutton inc. 's $ 335 million sector analysis portfolio , predicts 0 the market will open down at least 50 points on technical factors and `` some panic selling . '' but she expects prices to rebound soon and is telling investors 0 she expects 0 the stock market wo n't decline more than 10 % to 15 % from recent highs . `` this is not a major crash , '' she said . nevertheless , ms. garzarelli said 0 she was swamped with phone calls over the weekend from nervous shareholders . `` half of them are really scared and want to sell , '' she said , `` but i 'm trying to talk them out of it . '' she added , 0 `` if they all were bullish , i 'd really be upset . '' the backdrop to friday 's slide was markedly different from that of the october 1987 crash , fund managers argue 0 . two years ago , unlike today , the dollar was weak , interest rates were rising and the market was very overvalued , they say 0 . `` from the investors ' standpoint , institutions and individuals learned a painful lesson ... by selling at the lows '' on black monday , said 0 stephen boesel , manager of the $ 580 million t. rowe price growth and income fund . this time , `` i do n't think 0 we 'll get a panic reaction .