the airline industry 's fortunes , in dazzling shape for most of the year , have taken a sudden turn for the worse in the past few weeks . citing rising fuel costs , promotional fare cuts and a general slowdown in travel , several major carriers have posted or are expected to post relatively poor third-quarter results . yesterday , usair group inc. , recently one of the industry 's stellar performers , posted a worse-than-expected $ 77.7 million net loss for the period . so far , the industry 's fourth quarter is n't looking too strong either , prompting many analysts to slash earning projections for the rest of the year by as much as one-fourth . and they say 0 the outlook for 1990 is nearly as bad . airlines in 1989 `` came in like a bang and are going out like a whimper , '' said 0 kevin murphy , an airline analyst at morgan stanley & co . this turn of events has put a big damper on an industry that seemed almost invincible last spring , when fares were rising at double-digit rates and many carriers seemed to be growing fat on near-monopolies in certain markets . now , many airline companies might become a lot less attractive as takeover targets on wall street . the downturn also raises questions about the carriers ' ambitious orders for new airplanes , which currently total $ 32.5 billion over the next three years . for travelers , though , the industry 's problems have had some positive effects . in recent weeks , airlines have cut numerous fares in leisure markets to try to win back customers . others have tried to spruce up frequent-flier programs . previously , airlines were limiting the programs because they were becoming too expensive . just last week , for example , trans world airlines and pan am corp. 's pan american world airways went so far as to offer cash rebates or gift checks of $ 200 to $ 1,000 to certain frequent-flier members making trans-atlantic flights in business class or first class . the industry 's slowdown became apparent this month when amr corp. , parent of american airlines , reported an 8.8 % drop in third-quarter net income and said 0 its fourth quarter would be `` disappointing . '' shortly before that , usair had said 0 its third-quarter results would be `` significantly lower '' than a year earlier . yesterday , it provided the details : its loss of $ 77.7 million , or $ 1.86 a share , contrasted with net of $ 68.5 million , or $ 1.58 a share , in the 1988 third quarter . revenue rose only 3.3 % in the latest period , to $ 1.53 billion from $ 1.48 billion . for the nine months , the arlington , va. , company 's net plunged 73 % to $ 38.5 million , or 76 cents a share , from $ 142.2 million , or $ 3.28 a share . revenue rose 12 % to $ 4.75 billion from $ 4.22 billion . the results surprised many analysts , because usair has almost no competition in its pittsburgh hub and has expanded operations by completing its acquisition of piedmont airlines . shortly after announcing its quarterly loss , usair 's stock tumbled $ 3 a share . it ended at $ 40.125 , down $ 2.375 , in new york stock exchange composite trading . `` nobody was expecting this size of a loss , '' said paul karos , an analyst with first boston corp . one airline executive , who declined to be identified , called the loss `` amazing . '' in announcing the results , usair cited many of the same problems that several other industry officials have named recently . it said 0 the industry 's domestic traffic was flat in the third quarter ; analysts say 0 this was because hefty fare increases earlier in the year scared off many leisure travelers this summer . to try to combat the traffic slowdown , airlines started reducing fares ; average fares rose only 1.7 % in august , in contrast to increases of 16 % each in february and march . but so far , the effort has failed , and traffic is still slow . some other fare promotions have backfired . this summer , the industry introduced a `` kids fly free '' program , in which children were allowed to fly free if they were traveling with an adult . airlines tried to restrict the program substantially by limiting the offer to certain days of the week , but it still was apparently used far more heavily than the airlines expected 0 . airlines also say 0 their frequent-flier programs are squeezing profits because awards are being redeemed at a heavier-than-normal rate . one airline official said 0 about three times as many free-travel coupons are being turned in as in previous years -- not surprisingly , as the airlines last year allowed many travelers to build up mileage at triple the normal rate . rising operating expenses are another problem . fuel costs were up 10 % in the third quarter . labor costs , which leveled off in the past few years because of lower pay scales for newer employees , are on the upswing again at many carriers . and some carriers are facing other unexpected headaches : usair , for example , blamed some of its loss on merger expenses and on disruptions caused by hurricane hugo last month . `` we can not quantify the total adverse effects of hugo , '' said edwin colodny , chairman and president of usair group . whatever the cause for the downturn , few people are predicting any sudden improvement . airline economics inc. , an aviation consulting firm , is projecting an industrywide operating profit of $ 2.5 billion for 1989 , compared with earlier forecasts of $ 3 billion to $ 3.5 billion . as for 1990 , the firm predicts 0 that profit will slip to between $ 1 billion and $ 1.5 billion .