european community employers fear that the ec commission 's plans for a `` charter of fundamental social rights '' is a danger to industrial competitiveness . `` we do n't want brussels deciding conditions for workers unless they are necessary and useful , '' said zygmunt tyszkiewicz , secretary general of the employers ' confederation unice . unice -- an acronym for the union of industrial and employers ' confederations of europe -- fears that the charter will force ec countries to adopt a single pattern in labor relations . workers and management , mr. tyszkiewicz said 0 , would lose the `` flexibility and diversity '' that has so far allowed them to adapt to local conditions and traditions . the british government also strongly opposes the charter in its current form . it argues , as does unice , that labor relations are best left to be regulated at the national level . france will propose a slightly watered-down version of the charter 0 to be discussed by ec social-affairs ministers on monday , officials said 0 . but the cosmetic changes are n't expected to win over britain . `` we still have serious differences with the text , '' a british official said , because it provides for a `` regulation of the labor market . '' mr. tyszkiewicz said 0 the charter would put poorer ec countries such as spain , greece and portugal at a disadvantage . it would force these countries to introduce minimum standards for pay and working hours , and provide for collective bargaining and worker `` participation '' in major corporate decisions . this , he warned 0 , would prevent these countries from bridging the difference with their richer ec brethren . indeed , lower wages -- in greece , they are a third of the ec average -- are n't enough to offset higher transport costs and lower productivity in the southern countries . increasing labor costs , mr. tyszkiewicz argued 0 , would only put the countries at a further disadvantage in competing in the barrier-free ec market planned for after 1992 . but the unice official said that producing a charter acceptable to both britain and european industry is n't an unattainable goal . the charter would just have to be restricted to a list of workers ' fundamental rights , without seeking to impose any norms . a key provision in the current version of the charter would give the commission a mandate 0 to produce an `` action program '' detailing on what points ec member states would be required to comply with the goals set out in the charter . this provision lies at the heart of the british and unice fears of `` social engineering '' by the commission . one possible political solution , an ec official said 0 , would be for the commission to present the action program in late november , before the adoption of the charter at a summit of ec governments on dec. 8 and 9 . this would leave britain free to adopt the charter after having rebutted the action program . the charter was approved by the ec commission on sept. 21 . france 's socialist government , which currently holds the council 's rotating presidency , is committed to having the charter adopted by all 12 ec states before the end of 1989 -- the bicentennial of the french revolution and its `` universal declaration of human rights .