people start their own businesses for many reasons . but a chance to fill out sales-tax records is rarely one of them . red tape is the bugaboo of small business . ironically , the person who wants to run his or her own business is probably the active , results-oriented sort most likely to hate meeting the rules and record-keeping demands of federal , state and local regulators . yet every business owner has to face the mound of forms and regulations -- and often is the only one available to tackle it . there is hope of change . last week , sen. malcolm wallop -lrb- r. , wyo . -rrb- held hearings on a bill 0 to strengthen an existing law designed to reduce regulatory hassles for small businesses . `` a great many federal regulations are meant for larger entities and do n't really apply to small businesses , '' says marian jacob , a legislative aide to sen. wallop . other lawmakers are busy trying to revive the recently lapsed paperwork reduction act , which many feel 0 benefited small enterprises . thus , optimistic entrepreneurs await a promised land of less red tape -- just as soon as uncle sam gets around to arranging it . meanwhile , they tackle the mounds of paper -- and fantasize about a dream world where bulk-mail postal regulations and government inspectors are banished . to find out what red tape riles entrepreneurs most , the journal asked a completely unscientific , random sample of business owners to fantasize about the forms and regulations 0 they would most like to get lost in the mail . some entrepreneurs say 0 the red tape 0 they most love to hate is red tape 0 they would also hate to lose . they concede that much of the government meddling that torments them is essential to the public good , and even to their own businesses . rules that set standards for products or govern business behavior , generally the best regarded form of red tape , `` create a level playing field and keep unscrupulous competitors away , '' says 0 sidney west , president of techdesign international inc. , a springfield , va. , business that designs telecommunication and other products . mr. west cites the federal communications commission and its standards for telecommunications equipment : `` they monitor product quality and prevent junk from flooding the market . '' some gripes about red tape are predictable : architects complain about a host of building regulations , auto leasing companies about car insurance rules . determining when handicapped access is required can be a nightmare for architects , says 0 mark dooling , president of dooling & co. , a newton , mass. , architectural firm . there is such a maze of federal , state and local codes that `` building inspectors are backing away from interpreting them , '' mr. dooling says 0 . taxi , leasing and other companies that maintain fleets of vehicles devote substantial resources to complying with state insurance laws and a host of agencies . `` it 's very costly and time-consuming , '' says phil rosen , a partner in fleet & leasing management inc. , a boston car-leasing company . one senior executive at his firm spends nearly 20 % of his time on insurance , he says 0 . other forms of red tape are more pervasive . the most onerous , many entrepreneurs say 0 , is the record-keeping and filing required by tax authorities . complying with environmental and workplace regulations runs a close second . but gripes run the gamut . here is the red tape that irks surveyed business owners the most : environmental regulations : next to medical insurance , `` costs of compliance '' are the fastest-growing expense at impco inc. , a providence , r.i. , chemical company . peter gebhard , the company 's owner , says 0 spending on regulatory paper work and the people 0 to do it -- mostly 0 to comply with federal , state and local environmental laws -- will rise almost 30 % this year to $ 100,000 . mr. gebhard adds that spending on environmental red tape amounts to between 6.5 % and 7.5 % of impco 's total operating expenses . eastern reproduction corp. , a waltham , mass. , maker of thin metal precision parts , must report to five federal and state agencies as well as to local fire , police , hospital and plumbing authorities , says 0 robert maguire , president . one state environmental regulator returned a report because `` it was n't heavy enough , it could n't have been correct , '' mr. maguire says 0 . withholding rules : employers must deposit withholding taxes exceeding $ 3,000 within three days after payroll -- or pay stiff penalties -- and that 's a big problem for small businesses . it 's especially nettlesome `` if you 're on the road and you 're the one responsible , '' says 0 eddie brown , president of brown capital management inc. , a baltimore money-management firm . employee manuals : revising employee manuals on pensions , health care and other subjects costs over $ 25,000 a year for bert giguiere , president of professional agricultural management inc. , a fresno , calif. , provider of business services to farmers . an employer leaves itself open to a great deal of liability if its employee manuals do n't reflect the most recent laws , he says 0 . but the ever-changing laws are usually so complicated and confusing that `` you need professionals to help you ; you ca n't do it yourself , '' he adds 0 . pension and profit-sharing rules : complying with these is enough to make business owners look forward to their own pension days . yearly changes in federal benefit laws force small businesses to repeatedly re-evaluate and redesign existing plans . alice fixx , who runs her own public-relations concern in new york , says 0 she has had to overhaul her pension and profit-sharing plans three times in the past three years . `` it does n't increase benefits , but it 's costly and time-consuming , '' ms. fixx says . compliance added 15 % to 20 % to her accounting bill last year , she says 0 . sales tax records : advertising agencies and other service companies are exempt from city and state sales tax in most locales -- but the exemption comes at a price of exhaustive records and rigorous reviews . to justify their exempt status and avoid penalties , these businesses must show once a year that each and every transaction on which they did n't pay sales tax was a legitimate business expense . `` you need one person 0 to just take care of sales tax , '' says jennie tong , executive vice president of lee liu & tong advertising inc. , new york .