prospect group inc. , whose recent hostile tender offer for recognition equipment inc. failed for lack of financing , apparently has gained a measure of control over the troubled company anyway . as part of what a recognition spokeswoman termed an `` amiable agreement , '' prospect group will wind up with control of top management posts and an increased stake in the maker of data management equipment . in a management restructuring , thomas l. ringer resigned as chairman , chief executive and a director , while israel sheinberg resigned as a director . mr. sheinberg remains as executive vice president . thomas m. hurley and robert a. vanourek , who had been designated to take over recognition 's top spots had prospect 's tender offer succeeded , were named co-chief executives and directors . mr. hurley was formerly a vice president and general manager of an avery international division ; mr. vanourek was a former group vice president of pitney bowes inc . in addition , the agreement calls for gilbert h. lamphere , chairman of prospect group 's executive committee , to be named chairman of a restructured board that will include four new independent directors . also named to the revised board was thomas a. loose , recognition 's senior vice president and general counsel . prospect , a new york-based leveraged buy-out firm , also agreed to invest $ 15 million in recognition , which in turn agreed to repurchase as much as $ 20 million of its stock . that would increase prospect 's ownership of the company 's fully-diluted shares outstanding to 20 % from 14.1 % . under the agreement , prospect is permitted to increase its stake in recognition to 30 % . beyond that , prospect said 0 it would n't offer to acquire additional shares for less than $ 11.25 a share during the next year or less than $ 14.06 a share during the subsequent two years . recognition also said 0 it obtained a commitment from chemical bank and bank of boston to convert an estimated $ 18 million in bank debt to a new , 24-month secured term loan 0 to be repaid through the sale of certain assets . in august , recognition said 0 it was in violation of certain terms of its debt agreements with bank lenders because of a $ 3.9 million loss for the third quarter ended july 31 . the company attributed the loss to declining revenue and litigation costs relating to criminal charges against the company and two former executives , william g. moore jr. and robert w. reedy . the former executives were indicted last october on charges of fraud , theft and conspiracy related to efforts by the company to win $ 400 million in postal service contracts . recognition equipment said 0 it expected to put the agreement with prospect to a vote of its stockholders at a special meeting in january . in new york stock exchange composite trading , recognition rose 87.5 cents to $ 6.625 . prospect slipped 25 cents to $ 10.50 in national over-the-counter trading .