senate democrats who favor cutting the capital-gains tax are n't ready to line up behind the leading senate proposal . their reluctance to support the proposal is another blow to the capital-gains cut , which has had a roller-coaster existence since the beginning of the year , when it was considered dead and then suddenly revived and was passed by the house . nevertheless , oregon sen. bob packwood , the ranking gop member on the tax-writing senate finance committee , last night introduced his plan as an amendment to a pending measure authorizing u.s. aid for poland and hungary . senate majority leader george mitchell -lrb- d. , maine -rrb- was confident 0 he had enough votes to block the maneuver on procedural grounds , perhaps as soon as today . mr. packwood all but conceded defeat , telling mr. mitchell : `` i sense at this stage 0 you may have the votes . '' the two lawmakers sparred in a highly personal fashion , violating usual senate decorum . their tone was good-natured , with mr. packwood saying 0 he intended to offer the proposal again and again on future legislation and sen. mitchell saying 0 he intended to use procedural means to block it again and again . although the proposal , authored by mr. packwood and sen. william roth -lrb- r. , del. -rrb- , appears to have general backing by republicans , their votes are n't sufficient to pass it . and democrats , who are under increasing pressure from their leaders to reject the gains-tax cut , are finding reasons to say no , at least for now . a major reason is that they believe 0 the packwood-roth plan would lose buckets of revenue over the long run . the packwood-roth proposal would reduce the tax depending on how long an asset was held . it also would create a new individual retirement account that would shield from taxation the appreciation on investments made for a wide variety of purposes , including retirement , medical expenses , first-home purchases and tuition . `` a number of us are not going to touch capital gains , iras or anything else unless it contributes to deficit-reduction , '' said sen. charles robb -lrb- d. , va. -rrb- , who is one of the 10 to 20 democrats who the bush administration believes 0 might favor giving preferential treatment to capital gains . president bush has been hearing this kind of opposition first hand during meetings over the past two days with democratic senators at the white house . and at a luncheon meeting tuesday of democratic senators , there was outspoken opposition to cutting the capital-gains tax this year , according to participants . the trend is making advocates of the tax cut less optimistic about success . `` there is a one-out-of-three shot of getting it this year , '' said sen. david boren of oklahoma , a leading democratic proponent of cutting the capital-gains tax . he called the battle `` uphill . '' other democrats who favor a capital-gains cut are even more pessimistic . `` there will be no capital-gains bill this year , '' said sen. dale bumpers -lrb- d. , ark . -rrb- . `` i 'm probably not going to vote for any capital-gains proposal . the ira portion -lrb- of the packwood-roth plan -rrb- is irresponsible . '' another significant factor in the capitalgains debate is the extent to which it has become a purely political battle between president bush and senate majority leader mitchell . mr. mitchell has made clear to his wavering colleagues that the issue is important to him personally . today , sen. mitchell and other leading democrats plan to turn up the heat again by holding a news conference to bash the proposal . estimates requested by sen. mitchell from the congressional joint taxation committee show that the richest 100 taxpayers got an average benefit from the capital-gains differential of $ 13 million each in 1985 , the last year for which figures are available . white house officials acknowledged yesterday that democrats still are reluctant to publicly express support for the packwood-roth capital gains proposal because they are loath to buck sen. mitchell . as a result , the officials said 0 they are open to making a variety of deals with senate democrats to win their support for a capital-gains tax cut . democrats asked in this week for discussions with president bush have suggested ways of `` tinkering '' with the packwood-roth proposal , suggesting an interest in looking for a modified version 0 they can back , one official said 0 . in addition , white house aides think that there are numerous other important measures 0 democrats badly wanted passed -- such as the scaling back of a controversial catastrophic health-care plan for the elderly -- that might provide the president leverage in cutting deals with democrats . a capital-gains tax cut might be paired with such measures to help ensure passage . other possibilities include a child-care initiative and an increase in the minimum wage . if they ca n't secure immediate passage of a capital-gains plan , administration officials also are n't ruling out making a deal with congress to put off a vote until a firm date in the future , even next year . but the officials insist that such a deal on a future vote would have to apply to both the house and the senate . gerald f. seib contributed to this article . japanese immigration authorities said 0 they found 658 more chinese among vietnamese boat people , bringing the number of chinese trying to enter japan by posing as vietnamese refugees this year to 1,642 . japan plans to send the chinese back home and is negotiating with the chinese government , a justice ministry official said 0 . the chinese were among 3,372 boat people supposedly from vietnam who arrived in japan this year , compared with 219 for all of 1988 , the official said 0 . the 658 chinese , who have been in a refugee-assistance center , were sent to immigration facilities yesterday pending deportation to china , the official said 0 . on sept. 13 , japan began a policy of screening boat people , accepting only those deemed to be political refugees . francoise verne , 52-year-old former deputy director of france 's mint , faces prison for her theft of some 67 rare coins from the mint 's collections . second in command from 1979 to 1984 , mrs. verne told a paris court that the `` great disorder '' that reigned at the agency led her into temptation . before an inventory in 1984 that showed the `` disappearance '' of 944 coins valued at about 2.9 million french francs -lrb- about $ 465,000 -rrb- , there had n't been any stock-taking since 1868 . tony lambert , mrs. verne 's successor , says 0 the mint 's losses from the theft run into the hundreds of thousands of francs . el salvador is destroying more than 1.6 million pounds of food that had rotted in government warehouses , government officials said 0 . the state supply regulator institute is to burn rice , corn and beans that spoiled because of neglect and corruption in the previous christian democrat government , a statement from the information service sisal said 0 . during the past administration the foodstuffs were first bought by the institute , then sold at low prices to `` unscrupulous businessmen '' who resold them to the institute at inflated prices , the statement said 0 . a black-draped cruise liner sailed into naples yesterday bringing 800 libyans threatening vengeance if italy refuses to pay compensation for more than 30 years of colonial rule . another 250 libyans were already in italy to stage a day of mourning for victims of italy 's colonial rule between 1911 and 1943 , when tripoli says 0 rome kidnapped 5,000 libyans and deported them as forced labor . libya 's revolutionary committees have threatened attacks on italians if rome does n't pay compensation . but officials in rome say 0 the issue was legally resolved by a settlement between italy and king idris , deposed by col. muammar gadhafi in 1969 . canadian indians are taking five countries to court in a bid to stop low military flights over their homes , the dutch defense ministry said 0 . representatives of the inuit and cree peoples living in quebec and labrador in northeastern canada told the ministry of the planned action at a meeting , a ministry spokesman said 0 . they also wanted to prevent a nato training base being built in the region , he said 0 . the action , in the canadian federal court , will be against canada , the netherlands , west germany , britain and the u.s. , the ministry spokesman said 0 . japan suspended imports of french mushrooms after finding some contaminated by radiation , an official of the ministry of health and welfare said 0 . japan has been testing imported food from europe since the april 1986 chernobyl accident in the soviet union , the spokesman said 0 . since then , the ministry has announced 50 bans on food imports from european countries , including italy , spain , turkey , greece and the soviet union . the venice city council is battling plans to tap huge gas fields off the coast that it says 0 will speed up the city 's slow sinking into its lagoon . agip , the state-owned energy giant , made the announcement about the gas field last month . located six miles northeast of venice , the field contains 875 billion cubic feet of methane gas - one-tenth of italy 's reserves . alarmed councilors say 0 the project could jeopardize costly efforts to stop , or slow down , the subsidence that makes venice subject to regular and destructive flooding . the council unanimously opposed the idea of agip pumping out the methane gas and swiftly appealed to the company and to prime minister giulio andreotti , who has yet to reply . agip refused to reconsider and says 0 drilling is due to start early next year . `` it 's unlikely 0 extracting the gas will cause subsidence , '' says a spokeswoman . thieves stole a 12th century fresco from an abandoned church in camerino , italy , by removing the entire wall on which the work had been painted , police said 0 ... . west germany 's bmw commissioned the nuremberg post office to test a prototype battery-powered car . the vehicle has a top speed of 65 miles an hour and requires recharging from a standard wall socket every 100 miles .