carnival cruise lines inc. 's common stock was dragged down yesterday amid concerns that a bankruptcy filing by a finnish shipbuilder would delay delivery of three big cruise ships . the miami-based company 's stock fell $ 1.75 yesterday to $ 20.75 a share in heavy american stock exchange composite trading . early yesterday , carnival said in a company statement that it had been `` notified unofficially '' that waertsilae marine industries , the finnish shipyard that is building its three new cruise ships , planned to file for bankruptcy . officials at carnival declined to comment . `` there is just a tremendous amount of uncertainty about what the effect , if any , of all this is , '' said john p. uphoff , an analyst at raymond james associates inc . `` i did n't even know that a company in a socialistic country could file for bankruptcy . '' carnival said 0 the `` fantasy , '' the first of the three $ 200 million ships that carnival has on order , is scheduled to be delivered next month , just in time for the winter tourist season in the caribbean . that ship , which would carry about 2,050 passengers , would expand the capacity of carnival 's existing 14-ship fleet by 24 % . the second ship , which is half-completed , is scheduled to be delivered in fall 1990 , and the third in fall 1991 . `` there 's a 99 % chance that the fantasy will be delivered close to schedule , '' said caroline levy , an analyst at shearson lehman hutton inc . `` the others will probably be delivered as well , but carnival will likely have to pay a higher price for them . '' she said 0 the company could pay as much as 25 % more for the ships . if the ships are n't delivered , however , it will likely have an effect on the company 's earnings as soon as the 1990 fiscal year , which begins dec. 1 . analysts said 0 those estimates -- which range from about $ 1.80 a share to $ 1.95 a share -- are based on fantasy being in operation in 1990 . if the ship fails to arrive , those per-share earnings estimates could be trimmed 15 cents or more . analysts were n't willing to speculate on how much money carnival might lose through deposits . normally , a company pays a portion of the total cost of a ship as it reaches various stages of construction . carnival , for example , has already paid about $ 160 million of the total cost for fantasy . some analysts say 0 this may give it the right 0 to seize the ship if the situation warrants it . according to reports from finland , waertsilae marine , 19%-owned by conglomerate oy waertsilae , filed for bankruptcy yesterday after the shipyard 's contractors had started to demand bank guarantees . the shipyard disclosed in mid-august that it expected losses stemming from a series of unprofitable orders .