mgm grand inc. has agreed to pay $ 93 million and nearly 1.8 million common shares to buy 117 acres of land along the las vegas , nev. , strip as a site for its planned movie-studio and theme-park resort . of the total purchase price , $ 50 million cash and $ 30 million in stock -lrb- nearly 1.8 million shares -rrb- would be paid to buy the existing 700-room marina hotel & casino from southwest securities , a nevada limited partnership . the remaining properties 0 to be acquired are the tropicana country club & golf course , a facility jointly owned by ramada inc. , of phoenix , ariz. , and the jaffe family , and a small parcel owned by mgm grand director james d. aljian . the purchase price was disclosed in a preliminary prospectus issued in connection with mgm grand 's planned offering of six million common shares . the luxury airline and casino company , 98.6%-owned by investor kirk kerkorian and his tracinda corp. , earlier this month announced its agreements to acquire the properties , but did n't disclose the purchase price . the proposed stock offering and issuance of nearly 1.8 million common shares in connection with the land purchase will bring mgm grand 's total shares outstanding to 28.7 million , of which 72 % will be owned by mr. kerkorian and tracinda , according to the prospectus . in over-the-counter trading , mgm grand was bid at $ 17.50 a share . proceeds from the offering are expected to be used for remodeling the company 's desert inn resort in las vegas , refurbishing certain aircraft of the mgm grand air unit , and to acquire the property for the new resort . the company said 0 it estimates 0 the desert inn remodeling will cost about $ 32 million , and 0 the refurbishment of the three dc-8-62 aircraft , made by mcdonnell douglas corp. , will cost around $ 24.5 million . mgm grand said 0 the latest stock offering wo n't cover the $ 600 million or more cost of building the proposed resort and theme park , and added 0 it will need to seek additional financing , either through bank borrowings or debt and equity offerings , at a later date . construction is set to begin in early 1991 . the resort will include the mgm grand hotel , a multi-spired , castle-like facility that will include 5,000 rooms and 85,000 square feet of casino space . the facility will be marketed toward families , and room rates will be between $ 35 and $ 55 a night , mgm grand said 0 . the prospectus did n't include many details about the studio and theme park , although conceptual drawings , released this month , show that it may feature several `` themed '' areas similar to those found at parks built by walt disney co .