ekco group inc. , nashua , n.h. , expects to report that net income in the third quarter , ended oct. 1 , fell 50 % to 60 % from $ 2.1 million , or 11 cents a share , a year earlier . robert stein , president and chief executive officer , attributed the expected decline partly to the effects of a two-week strike last month at the company 's masillon , ohio , bakeware facility . softer-than-expected orders in early september also played a role , he said 0 in an interview . but mr. stein said 0 he is `` reasonably confident '' that earnings for the full year will exceed the $ 3.1 million , or 17 cents a share , in 1988 . that would require fourth-quarter net of more than about 22 cents to 24 cents a share , assuming that mr. stein 's third-quarter estimate proves accurate . in the year-earlier fourth quarter , the company had profit of $ 2.7 million , or 15 cents a share . third-quarter revenue is expected to be $ 40 million to $ 45 million , up from $ 38.2 million a year earlier , according to neil gordon , treasurer . the year-earlier periods do n't reflect results of the company 's woodstream corp. unit , acquired last january , but include some canadian operations that were sold at the end of 1988 . august through october traditionally is the busiest season for the bakeware business , as many retailers use the goods as autumn promotional items . mr. stein said 0 some retailers -- perhaps anxious about minimizing inventories -- appear to have held back on orders in september but have been ordering more heavily in october . mr. stein said 0 woodstream is `` marginally profitable '' but has n't performed as well as expected . woodstream 's victor-brand mousetraps and other pest-control products are `` doing very well , '' and its plastic storage-case products `` are poised for growth , '' he said 0 . but the unit 's third segment , wildlife traps , is suffering from a `` depressed market , '' and ekco is seeking to sell that segment , he said 0 . mr. stein said 0 he expects profit to be higher in 1990 than in 1989 , reflecting a number of measures taken since the acquisition of ekco housewares in late 1987 . -lrb- prior to acquiring the housewares business , the company was known as centronics corp. ; centronics had been a maker of computer printers , but mr. stein and other officers decided to sell that business after japanese competitors grabbed a dominant share of the market . -rrb- mr. stein said 0 tighter operating controls have enabled ekco to reduce inventory levels 25 % to 30 % ; improve on-time delivery of orders to about 95 % from around 70 % ; and to lower the number of labor hours required to produce a unit . by moving the design of new products in-house -- instead of contracting out the work -- the company also has been able to come up with designs that can be manufactured more efficiently , he said 0 . in addition to those measures , the company spent heavily earlier this year to install displays at its customers ' retail outlets -- a strategy that mr. stein said 0 has helped bolster awareness of the company 's brands . ekco 's housewares operation makes kitchen tools and gadgets , as well as bakeware , at factories in the u.s. and canada . the main issue in the strike at the ohio facility was health-care benefits , mr. stein said 0 . the strike ended oct . ekco continues to seek further acquisitions in the consumer-products industry , mr. stein said 0 . he indicated that ekco may be interested in acquiring another company with revenue in the range of $ 75 million to $ 100 million , partly because mass merchandisers increasingly want to rely on larger , and fewer , suppliers .