wall street would like ual corp. 's board to change its mind about keeping the company independent . but what happens next in the continuing takeover drama may depend more on the company 's two most powerful and fractious unions : the pilots and machinists . some people familiar with the situation believe that the collapse of the previous $ 6.79 billion buy-out , if anything , may have strengthened the hands of these two labor groups . as a result , both may now have virtual veto power over any ual transaction . one reason : banks -- likely to react to any new ual deal with even more caution than the first time around -- probably will insist on labor harmony before they agree to put up cash for any new bid or even a less-ambitious recapitalization plan . `` united pilots have shown on a number of occasions 0 they are willing and able to strike , '' said an executive at fuji bank , one of ual 's large lenders . `` if you have both -lcb- labor -rcb- groups on strike , you 've got no revenue and that 's a very scary thing 0 for a bank to be looking at . '' just this past week , a leading japanese bank asked for a meeting with the machinists ' union leaders 0 to determine where the union would stand if another bid or recapitalization became possible . another reason : emboldened by their success in helping to scuttle the previous transaction , the machinists are likely to be more aggressive if a second buy-out attempt occurs . the two unions already had significant leverage simply because their employer has yet to settle with either on new contracts . that gives them both the threat of a strike and the ability to resist any wage concessions that may be necessary to make a transaction work . thus , even investors who are pushing for the board to do a recapitalization that would pay shareholders a special dividend and possibly grant employees an ownership stake acknowledge that the unions are key . `` there 's less likelihood of creating and completing a transaction without the unions ' cooperation and wage concessions , '' said richard nye , of baker , nye investments , a new york takeover stock-trader . mr. nye thinks 0 the ual board should be ousted if it does n't move soon to increase shareholder value . both the pilots and machinists have made it clear that they intend to block any transaction 0 they do n't like . `` the pilots will be involved in any transaction that takes place around here , '' pilot union chairman frederick c. dubinsky declared yesterday . but whether the pilots can team up with their longtime adversaries , the machinists , is another question . the pilots ' mr. dubinsky says 0 his union would like majority ownership for employees . at the very least , the pilots want some form of control over the airline , perhaps through super-majority voting rights . on the other hand , the machinists have always opposed majority ownership in principle , saying 0 they do n't think 0 employees should be owners . still , in recent days , machinists ' union leaders have shown some new flexibility . `` we may be able to reach a tradeoff where we can accommodate -lcb- the pilot union 's -rcb- concerns and ours , '' said brian m. freeman , the machinists ' financial adviser . mr. freeman said 0 machinists ' union advisers plan to meet this week to try to draw up a blueprint for some form of recapitalization that could include a special dividend for shareholders , an employee stake and , perhaps , an equity investment by a friendly investor . if a compromise ca n't be reached , the pilots maintain 0 they can do a transaction without the support of the machinists . but at this point , that may just be wishful thinking . the machinists lobbied heavily against the original bid from ual pilots and management for the company . their opposition helped scare off some japanese banks . the pilots ' insistence on majority ownership also may make the idea of a recapitalization difficult 0 to achieve . `` who wants to be a public shareholder investing in a company controlled by the pilots ' union ? '' asks candace browning , an analyst at wertheim schroeder & co . `` who would the board be working for -- the public shareholders or the pilots ? '' she adds . ms. browning says 0 she believes 0 a recapitalization involving employee ownership would succeed only if the pilots relent on their demand for control . she also notes that even if the pilots accept a minority stake now , they still could come back at a later time and try to take control . another possibility is for the pilots ' to team up with an outside investor who might try to force the ouster of the board through the solicitation of consents . in that way , the pilots may be able to force the board to approve a recapitalization that gives employees a majority stake , or to consider the labor-management group 's latest proposal . the group did n't make a formal offer , but instead told ual 's advisers before the most-recent board meeting that it was working on a bid valued at between $ 225 and $ 240 a share . but again , they may need the help of the machinists . `` i think 0 the dynamics of this situation are that something 's got to happen , '' said one official familiar with the situation . the board and ual 's management , he says 0 , `` ca n't go back '' to business as usual . `` the pilots wo n't let them .