call it the `` we 're too broke to fight '' defense . lawyers for dozens of insolvent savings and loan associations are trying a new tack in their efforts to defuse suits filed by borrowers , developers and creditors . the thrifts ' lawyers claim that the suits , numbering 700 to 1,000 in texas alone , should be dismissed as moot because neither the s&ls nor the extinct federal savings and loan insurance corp. has the money 0 to pay judgments . though the argument may have a common-sense ring to it , even the s&l lawyers concede 0 there 's little precedent 0 to back their position . still , one federal appeals court has signaled 0 it 's willing to entertain the notion , and the lawyers have renewed their arguments in texas and eight other states where the defense is permitted under state law . the dismissal of the pending suits could go a long way toward clearing court dockets in texas and reducing the fslic 's massive legal bills , which topped $ 73 million last year . the s&l lawyers were encouraged last month by an appellate-court ruling in two cases brought against defunct sunbelt savings & loan association of dallas by the developers of the valley ranch , best known as the training center for the dallas cowboys football team . sunbelt foreclosed on the ranch . sunbelt and the fslic argued to the fifth u.s. circuit court of appeals `` that there will never be any assets with which to satisfy a judgment against sunbelt savings nor any means 0 to collect from any other party , including fslic . '' `` if true , '' the court wrote , `` this contention would justify dismissal of these actions on prudential grounds . '' but the court said 0 it lacked enough financial information about sunbelt and the fslic and sent the cases back to federal district court in dallas . charles haworth , a lawyer for sunbelt , says 0 he plans to file a brief this week urging the district judge to dismiss the suits , because sunbelt 's liabilities exceeded its assets by about $ 2 billion when federal regulators closed it in august 1988 . `` this institution is just brain dead , '' says mr. haworth , a partner in the dallas office of andrews & kurth , a houston law firm . but a lawyer for triland investment group , the developer of valley ranch , dismisses such arguments as a `` defense du jour . '' attorney richard jackson of dallas says 0 a judgment for triland could be satisfied in ways other than a monetary award , including the reversal of sunbelt 's foreclosure on valley ranch . `` we 're asking the court for a number of things 0 he can grant in addition to the thrill of victory , '' he says 0 . `` we 'd take the valley ranch free and clear as a booby prize .