within minutes after the stock market closed friday , i called sen. bill bradley of new jersey , advised him that the dow jones industrial average had declined by 190 points late that afternoon , and cheerfully informed him that he and his fellow democrats were to blame . they had dealt a major setback that afternoon to president bush 's capital-gains tax cut proposal , which had seemed in the bag after it passed the house overwhelmingly earlier in the month . sen. bradley has it in his mind that such a tax cut would unravel the tax reform 0 he helped engineer in 1986 . but he knows that as many as 20 of his fellow democrats are disposed to vote for the cut , popular among their constituents . as a result , he took the lead in arguing that the cut should be blocked on procedural grounds . he helped persuade 10 of these senators to support him and majority leader george mitchell on these grounds . the budget reconciliation had to be dealt with by the oct. 15 deadline , and these senate democrats refused to agree to allow a vote 0 to append capital gains to the budget bill , knowing 0 it would pass . denied a vote on substance , the gop leadership in the senate on friday morning was confronted with a hard choice . it could throw in the towel and hope to win on capital gains late this month , or it could follow the white house strategy , to veto reconciliation unless capital gains was appended . the u.s. chamber of commerce has been in the forefront in supporting the bush proposal . it endorsed the white house strategy , believing it to be the surest way to victory . at noon friday , a senior white house official advised richard rahn , the chamber 's chief economist , that the white house would not agree to a budget reconciliation bill unless it had firm assurances that a vote on substance would be permitted in the senate . two hours later , the first word emerged on capitol hill that the administration had agreed to reconciliation with no such assurances from senate democrats . mr. rahn was shocked , telephoning the office of richard darman , director of the office of management and budget , and the administration 's chief strategist on this issue . he left a message accusing mr. darman of selling out . it was the senate republicans , though , who had edged away from the veto strategy . the stock market reacted as mr. rahn did , crumbling as it absorbed the news that mr. darman 's strategy had been abandoned . the stock market , after all , represents the collective expectations about the value of the future income stream of the nation 's capital stock , discounted to present value . why should it be so surprising that a 30 % cut in the capital-gains tax would have such an enormous impact on the value of the nation 's capital stock ? the total value of privately held assets is easily more than $ 15 trillion . the value traded on the exchanges is close to $ 3 trillion . if the tax on any gain to those assets was doubled , would n't the value fall to the owners of the assets ? is n't it reasonable to assume that the asset 0 you own would be worth more if the government suddenly announced that if you sold it , you would be able to keep 30 % more of its gain than you previously believed 0 ? indeed , the stock market 's steady advance this year tracked with president bush 's success in advancing his capital-gains proposal . a 30 % cut in this year 's capital gains alone amounts to roughly $ 50 billion . we 're talking real money . when richard rahn advised the financial press that the market crash was caused by the setback to capital gains , he was generally ignored and mildly ridiculed . instead , the press corps readily accepted the notion that a snag in the takeover financing of united airlines instantly knocked 7 % off the value of the nation 's capital stock and caused convulsions around the world . mr. rahn was pointing out an elephant rumbling through wall street while conventional wisdom had fastened on the ual flea . why is this happening ? for one thing , quite a number of the leading spokesmen on wall street are not portfolio managers , who understand that the value of assets is greatly affected by how government taxes those assets . they are economists and financial reporters who sympathize with the view that a capital-gains tax cut benefits the rich . yet they somehow think that wall street is indifferent to losing the tax cut that seemed so close friday morning and is now problematic . the market rebound monday followed weekend assurances from mr. darman that the administration has other plans 0 to win the cut , which is alive and well . sen. bradley 's argument is that a capital-gains tax cut would be bad for the economy in the longer run . it would inevitably lead to an increase in marginal income-tax rates in 1990 , he thinks 0 , when the white house is forced to ask for higher taxes 0 to meet budget targets . that is , with capital gains cut , the glue of the 1986 accord will be gone , and political realities will push up income-tax rates . the counter-argument , which he has heard , is that if he and his fellow democrats are successful in killing the president 's proposal , the revenue gap will open up tremendously in 1990 because of the weakened economy . in this atmosphere , there would be no serious consideration of tax increases . if sen. bradley would permit a vote on capital gains , though , it would pass , christmas retail sales would be strong instead of burdened by a falling stock market , the 1990 economy would be robust , and the revenue gains at every level of government , including new jersey 's , would be surprisingly high . no tax increases would be necessary . the struggle over capital gains is the most important game in town . in washington and on wall street . mr. wanniski is president of polyconomics inc. , of morristown , n.j .