robert l. bernstein , chairman and president of random house inc. , announced his resignation from the publishing house 0 he has run for 23 years . a successor was n't named , which fueled speculation that mr. bernstein may have clashed with s.i. newhouse jr. , whose family company , advance publications inc. , owns random house . abrupt departures are n't unheard of within the newhouse empire . in an interview , mr. bernstein said 0 his departure `` evolved out of discussions with si newhouse and that 's the decision 0 i reached . '' he declined to elaborate , other than to say , `` it just seemed the right thing 0 to do at this minute . sometimes you just go with your gut . '' mr. bernstein said 0 he will stay until dec. 31 and work with his successor , who is to be named soon . mr. newhouse , meanwhile , insisted that he is n't unhappy with mr. bernstein or the performance of random house , the largest trade publishing house in the u.s. . the company said 0 the publisher 's annual sales volume increased to $ 800 million from $ 40 million during mr. bernstein 's tenure . `` bob has handled the extraordinary growth of the company quite brilliantly , '' said mr. newhouse . `` the company is doing well , it 's stable , it 's got good people . bob has an agenda and this seemed like the natural time . '' publishing officials believe that while random house has enjoyed spectacular growth and has smoothly integrated many acquisitions in recent years , some of the bigger ones have n't been absorbed so easily . crown publishing group , acquired last year , is said to be turning in disappointing results . as a private company , random house does n't report its earnings . mr. bernstein , who succeeded bennett cerf , has been only the second president of random house since it was founded in 1925 . speculation on his successor centers on a number of division heads at the house . possible candidates include susan petersen , president of ballantine\/del rey\/fawcett , random house 's huge and successful paperback division . some say 0 anthony cheetham , head of a recently acquired british company , century hutchinson , could be chosen . there is also speculation that mr. newhouse could bring in a powerhouse businessman or another newhouse family member 0 to run the business side , in combination with a publishing executive like robert gottlieb , who left random house 's alfred a. knopf to run the new yorker , also owned by the newhouse family . not included on the most-likely-successor list are joni evans , recruited two years ago to be publisher of adult trade books for random house , and sonny mehta , president of the prestigious alfred a. knopf unit . when ms. evans took her job , several important divisions that had reported to her predecessor were n't included partly because she did n't wish to be a full-time administrator . mr. mehta is widely viewed as a brilliant editor but a less-than-brilliant administrator and his own departure was rumored recently . mr. bernstein , a tall , energetic man who is widely respected as a publishing executive , has spent much of his time in recent years on human rights issues .