for those who delight in the misfortune of others , read on . this is a story about suckers . most of us know a sucker . many of us are suckers . but what we may not know is just what makes somebody a sucker . what makes people blurt out their credit-card numbers to a caller 0 they 've never heard of ? do they really believe that the number is just for verification and is simply a formality on the road to being a grand-prize winner ? what makes a person buy an oil well from some stranger knocking on the screen door ? or an interest in a retirement community in nevada that will knock your socks off , once it is built ? because in the end , these people always wind up asking themselves the same question : `` how could i be so stupid ? '' there are , unfortunately , plenty of answers to that question -- and scam artists know all of them . `` these people are very skilled at finding out what makes a person tick , '' says kent neal , chief of the economic-crime unit of the broward county state attorney 's office in fort lauderdale , fla. , a major haven for boiler rooms . `` once they size them up , then they know what buttons to push . '' john blodgett agrees -- and he ought to know . he used to be a boiler-room salesman , peddling investments in oil and gas wells and rare coins . `` there 's a definite psychology of the sale and different personalities 0 you pitch different ways , '' he says . the most obvious pitch , of course , is the lure of big returns . `` we 're all a little greedy . everyone is vulnerable , '' says charles harper , associate regional administrator for the securities and exchange commission in miami . `` these guys prey on human frailties . '' while the promises of big profits ought to set off warning bells , they often do n't , in part because get-rich-quick tales have become embedded in american folklore . `` the overnight success story is part of our culture , and our society puts an emphasis on it with lotteries and ed mcmahon making millionaires out of people , '' says michael cunningham , an associate professor of psychology at the university of kentucky in louisville . `` other people are making it overnight , and the rest who toil daily do n't want to miss that opportunity when it seems to come along . '' adds spencer barasch , branch chief for enforcement at the sec in fort worth , texas : `` why do people play the lottery when the odds are great against them ? people are shooting for a dream . '' clearly , though , scam artists have to be a bit more subtle than simply promising millions ; the psychology of suckers is n't simply the psychology of the greedy . there 's also , for instance , the need to be part of the in-crowd . so one popular ploy is to make a prospective investor feel like an insider , joining an exclusive group that is about to make a killing . between 1978 and 1987 , for instance , sh oil in winter haven , fla. , sold interests in oil wells to a very select group of local residents , while turning away numerous other eager investors . the owner of the company , stephen smith , who has since pleaded guilty to state and federal fraud charges , confided to investors that he had a secret agreement with amoco oil co. and said 0 the location of his wells was confidential , according to a civil suit filed in a florida state court by the florida comptroller 's office . neither the amoco agreement nor the wells existed , the suit alleged 0 . such schemes , says 0 tony adamski , chief of the financial-crimes unit of the federal bureau of investigation in washington , d.c. , appeal to investors ' `` desire to believe 0 this is really true and that they are part of a chosen group being given this opportunity . '' at times , salesmen may embellish the inside information with `` the notion that this is some slightly shady , slightly illegal investment 0 the person is being included in , '' says 0 mr. cunningham . in appealing to those with a bit of larceny in their hearts , the fraud artist can insist that a person keep an investment secret -- insulating himself from being discovered and keeping his victim from consulting with others . it also adds to the mystery of the venture . mr. blodgett , the boiler-room veteran , believes that for many investors , the get-rich-quick scams carry a longed-for element of excitement . `` once people got into it , i was allowing them to live a dream , '' he says . he phoned them with updates on the investment , such as `` funny things that happened at the well that week , '' he says 0 . `` you gave them some excitement that they did n't have in their lives . '' -lrb- mr. blodgett , who was convicted in florida state court of selling unregistered securities and in california state court of unlawful use of the telephone to defraud and deceive , is now on probation . he says 0 he has quit the business and is back in school , majoring in psychology with aspirations to go into industrial psychology . -rrb- for some investors , it 's the appearances that leave them deceived . `` the trappings of success go a long way -- wearing the right clothes , doing the right things , '' says paul andreassen , an associate professor of psychology at harvard . conservative appearances make people think 0 it 's a conservative investment . `` people honestly lose money on risky investments that they did n't realize 0 were a crapshoot , '' he says . paul wenz , a phoenix , ariz. , attorney , says 0 a promise of unrealistic returns would have made him leery . but mr. wenz , who says 0 he lost $ 43,000 in one precious-metals deal and $ 39,000 in another , says 0 a salesman `` used a business-venture approach '' with him , sending investment literature , a contract limiting the firm 's liability , and an insurance policy . when he visited the company 's office , he says 0 , it had `` all the trappings of legitimacy . '' still others are stung by a desire to do both well and good , says 0 douglas watson , commanding officer of the los angeles police department 's bunko-forgery division . born-again christians are the most visible targets of unscrupulous do-gooder investment pitches . but hardly the only ones : the scams promise -- among other things -- to help save the environment , feed starving families and prevent the disappearance of children . psychologists say 0 isolated people who do n't discuss their investments with others are particularly at risk for fraud . scam artists seek out such people -- or try to make sure that their victims isolate themselves . for instance , salesmen may counter a man 's objection that he wants to discuss an investment with his wife by asking , `` who wears the pants in your family ? '' or an investor who wants his accountant 's advice may be told , `` you seem like a guy who can make up his own mind . '' often con artists will try to disarm their victims by emphasizing similarities between them . william lynes , a retired engineer from lockheed corp. , says 0 he and his wife , lily , warmed to the investment pitches of a penny-stock peddler from stuart-james co. in atlanta after the broker told them 0 he , too , had once worked with lockheed . the lyneses , of powder springs , ga. , have filed suit in georgia state court against stuart james , alleging fraud . they are awaiting an arbitration proceeding . they say 0 the broker took them out for lunch frequently . he urged them to refer their friends , who also lost money . -lrb- donald trinen , an attorney for the penny-brokerage firm , denies the fraud allegations and says 0 the lyneses were fully apprised that they were pursuing a high-risk investment . -rrb- `` it 's not uncommon for these guys to send pictures of themselves or their families to ingratiate themselves to their clients , '' says terree bowers , chief of the major-frauds section of the u.s. attorney 's office in los angeles . `` we 've seen cases where salesmen will affect the accent of the region of the country 0 they are calling . anything to make a sale . '' experts say that whatever a person 's particular weak point , timing is crucial . people may be particularly vulnerable to flim-flam pitches when they are in the midst of a major upheaval in their lives . `` sometimes when people are making big changes , retiring from their jobs , moving to a new area , they lose their bearings , '' says maury elvekrog , a licensed psychologist who is now an investment adviser and principal in seger-elvekrog inc. , a birmingham , mich. , investment-counseling firm . `` they may be susceptible to some song and dance if it hits them at the right time . '' they are obviously also more susceptible when they need money - retirees , for instance , trying to bolster their fixed income or parents fretting over how to pay for a child 's college expenses . `` these people are n't necessarily stupid or naive . almost all of us in comparable circumstances might be victimized in some way , '' says jerald jellison , a psychology professor at the university of southern california in los angeles . nick cortese thinks 0 that 's what happened to him . mr. cortese , a 33-year-old delta air lines engineer , invested some $ 2,000 in penny stocks through a broker who promised quick returns . `` we were saving up to buy a house , and my wife was pregnant , '' says mr. cortese . `` it was just before the christmas holidays , and i figured 0 we could use some extra cash . '' the investment is worth about $ 130 today . `` maybe it was just a vulnerable time , '' says mr. cortese . `` maybe the next day or even an hour later , i would n't have done it . '' ms. brannigan is a staff reporter in the wall street journal 's atlanta bureau .