after 20 years of pushing labor proposals 0 to overhaul the nation 's health-care system , bert seidman of the afl-cio is finding interest from an unlikely quarter : big business . corporate leaders , frustrated by double-digit increases in health-care costs , are beginning to sound like liberal democrats . failure to check rising medical costs ultimately could `` lead some of us who today are free-market advocates to re-examine our thinking and positions with respect to government-sponsored national health insurance , '' arthur puccini , a general electric co. vice president , warned 0 earlier this year . the pocketbook impact of health benefits has driven business and labor to a surprising consensus . both the afl-cio and the national association of manufacturers are calling for measures 0 to control rising costs , improve quality and provide care to the 31 million americans who currently lack health insurance . agreement on these points is a long way from a specific program , and nobody expects the u.s. to rush toward radical restructuring of the health-care system . but there are signs that labor-management cooperation could change the politics of health-care legislation and the economics of medicine . `` i ca n't remember a time when virtually everyone can agree on what the problem is , '' says mr. seidman , who heads the afl-cio 's department dealing with health matters . because the bush administration is n't taking the initiative on health issues , business executives are dealing with congressional democrats who champion health-care revision . `` business across the country is spending more time addressing this issue , '' says sen. edward kennedy -lrb- d. , mass . -rrb- . `` it 's a bottom-line issue . '' business complained earlier this year when sen. kennedy introduced a bill that would require employers to provide a minimum level of health insurance to workers but does n't contain cost-control measures . partly in response , a bipartisan group of senators from the finance and labor committees is drafting a plan 0 to attract broader support . it will feature a cost-containment provision designed to keep expanded benefits from fueling higher care prices . at 11.1 % of gross national product , u.s. health costs already are the highest in the world . by contrast , japan 's equal 6.7 % of gnp , a nation 's total output of goods and services . management and labor worry that the gap makes u.s. companies less competitive . chrysler corp. estimates that health costs add $ 700 to the price of each of its cars , about $ 300 to $ 500 more per car than foreign competitors pay for health . `` the cost of health care is eroding standards of living and sapping industrial strength , '' complains walter maher , a chrysler health-and-benefits specialist . labor is upset because many companies are using higher employee insurance premiums , deductibles and co-payments to deflect surging medical costs to workers . health benefits are contentious issues in the strikes against pittston co. and nynex corp . in their new contract this year , american telephone & telegraph co. and the communications workers of america agreed to look for `` prompt and lasting national solutions '' to rising health-care costs . some analysts are cynical about the new corporate interest in health-care overhaul . carl schramm , president of the health insurance association of america , scoffs at `` capitalists who want to socialize the entire financing system '' for health . `` they hope 0 they can buy some government cost discipline , '' but this is a false hope , mr. schramm says 0 . he asserts that government has done an even worse job of controlling its health bill than business . so far neither the bush administration nor congress is prepared to lead the way toward revamping health care . the administration lacks a comprehensive health-care policy . congress still is struggling to dismantle the unpopular catastrophic care act of 1988 , which boosted benefits for the elderly and taxed them to pay for the new coverage . a bipartisan commission established by congress and headed by sen. john rockefeller -lrb- d. , w.va . -rrb- is scheduled to present new plans for dealing with the uninsured and long-term care for the elderly by next march 1 . a quadrennial commission appointed by health and human services secretary louis sullivan is taking a broad look at the economics of medicare for the elderly , medicaid for the poor and the health system in general . it is expected to report next summer . `` no magic bullet will be discovered next year , an election year , '' says rep. fortney stark -lrb- d. , calif . -rrb- but 1991 could be a window for action . the pressure for change will rise with costs . `` i think 0 employers are really going to be the ones 0 to push for major change , '' says sharon canner , a health expert at nam . any major attempt to revamp the health-care system is likely to trigger opposition from politically powerful interest groups , particularly the american medical association , and perhaps from the public as well , if congress takes steps that patients fear 0 will limit the availability of care . the nam embraces efforts , which both the administration and the medical profession have begun , to measure the effectiveness of medical treatments and then to draft medical-practice guidelines . advocates hope that such standards will improve treatment while limiting unnecessary tests and medical procedures . hhs secretary sullivan estimates that as much as 25 % of the medical procedures performed each year may be inappropriate or unnecessary . limiting care wo n't be easy or popular . `` to slow the rise in total spending , it will be necessary to reduce per-capita use of services , '' the nam warns in a policy statement . this will `` require us to define -- and redefine -- what is ` necessary ' or ` appropriate ' care . this involves trade-offs and -lcb- it -rcb- cuts against the grain of existing consumer and even provider conceptions of what is ` necessary . ' '' the afl-cio also embraces treatment guidelines . in addition , it 's toying with an approach that would impose health-expenditure ceilings or budgets on the government as a whole and on individual states as a way 0 to slow health-care spending . at a meeting here on nov. 15 , the labor federation plans to launch a major effort to build grass-roots support for health-care overhaul .