banks are continuing to go after individual investors , despite falling interest rates . yields on small-denomination certificates of deposit fell at about half the rate of so-called jumbo cds this week , according to banxquote money markets , an information service based here . investors can get slightly higher yields on deposits below $ 50,000 than they can on deposits of $ 90,000 and up . `` banks want to remain competitive , '' said norberto mehl , chairman of banxquote . `` october is a big rollover month and perhaps they anticipate greater demand ... among people leaving the stock market . '' some bankers are reporting more inquiries than usual about cds since friday . `` reports from branches are that there has been greater interest in the last day or so , '' said steven braitman , a vice president at chemical bank in new york . chemical said 0 deposits monday were about $ 5 million higher than usual and it expects more activity as investors receive the proceeds from sales of stock . `` this is no time 0 to be playing in the street ... the dow has more ups and downs than an elevator , '' proclaimed an advertisement monday in new york newspapers , touting lincoln savings bank 's one-year cd . harold jones , lincoln 's chief retail banking officer , said 0 there has n't yet been `` a discernible response , '' although the ad included a coupon that could arrive later in the week . friday 's market rout came smack in the middle of the heaviest month for cd rollovers , when a number of banks and thrifts already have promotions under way . first national bank of boston , for example , is offering certain new depositors an extra quarter of a percentage point on six-month and 12-month cds . some banks actually boosted yields on the shortest term cds in the latest week . new york 's citibank , for instance , increased the yield on small-denomination three-month cds to 8 % from 7.9 % . on average , however , three-month cds at major banks are yielding a tenth of a percentage point less than they were a week ago . average yields on cds aimed at individual investors fell less than half as much as yields on treasury bills sold at monday 's auction . six-month cds of $ 50,000 and less yielded an average 8.02 % in the week ended tuesday , down from 8.10 % , according to banxquote . the yield on six-month t-bills fell to 7.82 % on monday , from 8.01 % the week before . meanwhile , the average yield on six-month cds of more than $ 90,000 fell to 7.93 % in the latest week , according to banxquote , from 8.10 % the week before . mr. mehl noted that actual rates are almost identical on small and large-denomination cds , but yields on cds aimed at the individual investor are boosted by more frequent compounding . cds sold by major brokerage houses , which like jumbo cds tend to closely follow interest rate trends , also posted larger drops in yields . a six-month , broker-sold cd , for example , was yielding an average 8.09 % in the latest week , a fifth of a percentage point lower than the week before . in late april , when interest rates were at their recent highs , short-term cds sold by brokers were offering yields half a percentage point or more higher than banks . cd yields are generally expected to fall further in coming weeks . `` what happened in the stock market and the bigger trade deficit '' reported yesterday `` make it unlikely that short-term interest rates will rise '' any time soon , said mr. mehl of banxquote . `` even before the market drop , rates were down about half a percentage point , '' said robert j. hutchinson , senior vice president for retail marketing at manufacturers hanover trust co. in new york . `` that puts pressure on cd rates .