when rune andersson set out to revive flagging swedish conglomerate trelleborg ab in the early 1980s , he spurned the advice of trendy management consultants . `` all these consultants kept coming around telling us 0 we should concentrate on high technology , electronics or biotechnology , and get out of mature basic industries , '' mr. andersson recalls . yet under its 45-year-old president , trelleborg moved aggressively into those unfashionable base industries -- first strengthening its existing rubber and plastics division , later adding mining as well as building and construction materials . it was a gutsy move for a little-known executive , fired after only two months as president of his previous company . but going against the grain has never bothered mr. andersson . stroking his trademark white goatee during a recent interview , the diminutive swede quips : `` it turned out to be lucky for us . if the whole market thinks 0 what you 're doing is crazy you do n't have much competition . '' mr. andersson is anxious to strengthen trelleborg 's balance sheet . characteristically , he did n't waste much time getting started . on tuesday , trelleborg 's directors announced plans to spin off two big divisions -- minerals processing , and building and distribution -- as separately quoted companies on stockholm 's stock exchange . at current market prices , the twin public offerings 0 to be completed next year would add an estimated 2.5 billion swedish kronor -lrb- $ 386 million -rrb- to trelleborg 's coffers , analysts say 0 . the board had also been expected to approve a skr1.5 billion international offering of new trelleborg shares . but that share issue -- intended to make trelleborg better known among international investors -- was postponed until market conditions stabilize , people familiar with the situation say 0 . trelleborg 's internationally traded `` bfree '' series stock plunged skr29 -lrb- $ 4.48 -rrb- to skr205 -lrb- $ 31.65 -rrb- in volatile trading monday in stockholm . tuesday , the shares regained skr20 , closing at skr225 . mr. andersson says 0 he is confident that taking parts of the company public will help erase the `` conglomerate stigma '' that has held down trelleborg 's share price . trelleborg plans to remain the dominant shareholder with stakes of slightly less than 50 % of both units . the spinoff should solve a problem for the parent . a family foundation set up by late founder henry dunker controls 59 % of trelleborg 's voting shares outstanding . but the foundation bylaws require the entire trelleborg stake to be sold in the open market if control drops below 50 % . that possibility had crept closer as repeated new share offerings 0 to finance trelleborg 's rapid growth steadily diluted the foundation 's holding . that growth is the result of mr. andersson 's shopping spree , during which he has bought and sold more than 100 companies during the past five years . most of the new additions were barely profitable , if not outright loss makers . applying prowess gained during earlier stints at appliance maker ab electrolux , mr. andersson and a handful of loyal lieutenants aggressively stripped away dead wood -- and got quick results . the treatment turned trelleborg into one of scandinavia 's biggest and fastest-growing industrial concerns . between 1985 and 1988 , sales multipled more than 10 times and pretax profit surged almost twelvefold . many analysts expect mr. andersson , who owns 1.7 % of the company , to be named trelleborg 's new chairman when ernst herslow steps down next year . but the promotion is n't likely to alter a management style 0 mr. andersson describes as `` being the driving force leading the troops , not managing by sitting back with a cigar waiting for people to bring me ideas . '' last month , in his boldest move yet , mr. andersson and trelleborg joined forces with canada 's noranda inc. in a joint $ 2 billion hostile takeover of another big canadian mining concern , falconbridge ltd . industry analysts suggest that the conquest of falconbridge could vault trelleborg from a regional scandinavian success story to a world-class mining concern . `` trelleborg is n't in the same league yet as mining giants such as rtz corp. or anglo-american corp. , '' says mike kurtanjek , a mining analyst at james capel & co. , london . `` but we certainly like what we 've seen so far . '' but trelleborg still must clear some tough hurdles . mr. andersson acknowledges that the company 's mining division `` will be busy for a while digesting its recent expansion . '' booming metals prices have fueled trelleborg 's recent profit surge , raising mining 's share of pretax profit to 68 % this year from a big loss two years earlier . but analysts caution 0 an expected fall in metal prices next year could slow profit growth . mining is likely to remain trelleborg 's main business . analysts say 0 its chances of success will likely hinge on how well trelleborg manages to cooperate with noranda in the falconbridge venture . noranda and trelleborg each came close to winning falconbridge alone before the successful joint bid . some analysts say 0 noranda would prefer to break up falconbridge , and that the swedes -- relatively inexperienced in international mining operations -- could have problems holding their own with a much bigger partner like noranda operating on its home turf . mr. andersson insists that trelleborg and noranda have n't discussed a falconbridge break-up . falconbridge , he says 0 , will continue operating in its current form . `` we 'd be reluctant to accept 50-50 ownership in a manufacturing company . but such partnerships are common in mining , where there are n't problems or conflict of interest or risk of cheating by a partner , '' trelleborg 's president says . perhaps more important , both companies share mr. andersson 's belief in the coming renaissance of base industries . `` if the 1980s were a decade of consumption , the '90s will be the investment decade , '' mr. andersson says . `` the whole of europe and the industrialized world is suffering from a breakdown in infrastructure investment , '' he says . `` that 's beginning to change . and investment is the key word for base metals , and most other businesses 0 trelleborg is in .