digital equipment corp. reported a 32 % decline in net income on a modest revenue gain in its fiscal first quarter , causing some analysts to predict weaker results ahead than they had expected . although the second-largest computer maker had prepared wall street for a poor quarter , analysts said 0 they were troubled by signs of flat u.s. orders and a slowdown in the rate of gain in foreign orders . the maynard , mass. , company is in a transition in which it is trying to reduce its reliance on mid-range machines and establish a presence in workstations and mainframes . net for the quarter ended sept. 30 fell to $ 150.8 million , or $ 1.20 a share , from $ 223 million , or $ 1.71 a share , a year ago . revenue rose 6.4 % to $ 3.13 billion from $ 2.94 billion . digital said 0 a shift in its product mix toward low-end products and strong growth in workstation sales yielded lower gross margins . a spokesman also said 0 margins for the company 's service business narrowed somewhat because of heavy investments made in that sector . the lack of a strong product at the high end of digital 's line was a significant drag on sales . digital hopes to address that with the debut of its first mainframe-class computers next tuesday . the new line is aimed directly at international business machines corp . `` until the new mainframe products kick in , there wo n't be a lot of revenue contribution at the high end , and that 's hurt us , '' said mark steinkrauss , digital 's director of investor relations . he said 0 unfavorable currency translations were also a factor in the quarter . dec shares rose $ 1.375 to $ 89.75 apiece in consolidated new york stock exchange trading yesterday . but analysts said that against the backdrop of a nearly 40-point rise in the dow jones industrial average , that should n't necessarily be taken as a sign of great strength . some cut their earnings estimates for the stock this year and predicted more efforts to control costs ahead . `` i think 0 the next few quarters will be difficult , '' said steven milunovich of first boston . `` margins will remain under pressure , and when the new mainframe does ship , i 'm not sure 0 it will be a big winner . '' mr. milunovich said 0 he was revising his estimate for dec 's current year from $ 8.20 a share to `` well below $ 8 , '' although he has n't settled on a final number . one troubling aspect of dec 's results , analysts said 0 , was its performance in europe . dec said 0 its overseas business , which now accounts for more than half of sales , improved in the quarter . it even took the unusually frank step of telling analysts in a morning conference call that orders in europe were up in `` double digits '' in foreign-currency terms . that gain probably translated into about 5 % to 7 % in dollar terms , well below recent quarters ' gains of above 20 % , reckons 0 jay stevens of dean witter reynolds . `` that was a disappointment '' and a sign of overall computer-market softness in europe , mr. stevens said 0 . marc schulman , with ubs securities in new york , dropped his estimate of dec 's full-year net to $ 6.80 a share from $ 8 . although overall revenues were stronger , mr. schulman said 0 , dec `` drew down its european backlog '' and had flat world-wide orders overall . `` the bottom line is that it 's more hand to mouth than it has been before , '' he said . mr. schulman said 0 he believes that the roll-out of dec 's new mainframe will `` occur somewhat more leisurely '' than many of his investment colleagues expect 0 . he said 0 current expectations are for an entry level machine to be shipped in december , with all of the more sophisticated versions out by june . for reasons 0 he would n't elaborate on , he said 0 he 's sure 0 that schedule wo n't be met , meaning less profit impact from the product for dec in the next few quarters . john r. wilke contributed to this article .