share prices plummeted across europe yesterday in response to friday 's new york sell-off , but some issues staged a late comeback after wall street opened without another rout . european investors have further reason for optimism today , after the u.s. rebound . the frankfurt stock exchange , which closed before the new york exchanges opened , was the hardest hit of the major european markets , with the dax index dropping 12.8 % . in london , prices plummeted in early trading and were off as much as 9 % before coming back strong after the new york opening to close down only 3.2 % . west german economics minister helmut haussmann said , `` in my view , the stock market will stabilize relatively quickly . there may be one or other psychological or technical reactions , but they are n't based on fundamentals . the economy of west germany and the ec -lcb- european community -rcb- is highly stable . '' paris , which has been the center of speculation fever in recent weeks , also was hard hit . share prices fell in milan , amsterdam , zurich , madrid and stockholm . prices in brussels , where a computer breakdown disrupted trading , also tumbled . following is a breakdown of major market activity : frankfurt : one of the sharpest declines came in the financial center of europe 's strongest economy . the dax index of 30 west german blue chips plunged 12.8 % , a one-day record , wiping out the summer 's gains . the index closed at 1385.72 , down 203.56 points . by comparison , two years ago on black monday , the new index would have dropped 9.4 % , according to a projection by the exchange . investors may have reacted so strongly to friday 's u.s. stock market loss because they had vivid memories of the frankfurt exchange 's losing 35 % of its value in the 1987 crash and its wake . this time , however , many small investors may have been hurt by acting so swiftly . `` they all went in the wrong direction , '' said andreas insam , an investment adviser for the bank in liechtenstein 's frankfurt branch . he said 0 he told clients to buy selected west german blue chips after they fell by about 10 % . after the opening was delayed 30 minutes because of the crush of sell orders , frankfurt 's normal two-hour trading session was extended 75 minutes to handle the heavy volume . `` the beginning was chaotic , '' said nigel longley , a broker for commerzbank ag . `` it took three-quarters of an hour before enough prices could be worked out to get a reading on the market . '' institutional investors and bankers , many of whom spent the night before in their offices watching far eastern markets , were cautiously optimistic after the mild 1.8 % decline in tokyo stock prices . `` everybody was still confident , including most institutional investors . that is why everybody was a little surprised by the storm of sell orders from small private investors , '' said norbert braeuer , a senior trader for hessische landesbank . some big institutions , including banks , began picking up lower-priced shares late yesterday , but most investors wanted to see what would happen in new york before acting . but even if wall street continues to stabilize , analysts here say 0 the latest blow to investor confidence could inhibit a swift recovery for the frankfurt exchange , which already was showing signs of weakness after the dax had slipped from a 1989 high of 1657.61 on sept. 8 . some of west germany 's bluest chips took some of the biggest hits . a 16.3 % drop for mannesmann ag and dresdner bank ag 's 9.6 % decline were especially problematic for their respective boards , whose plans for major rights issues in november could now be in jeopardy . dresdner bank last month said 0 it hoped to raise 1.2 billion marks -lrb- $ 642.2 million -rrb- by issuing four million shares at 300 marks each . yet yesterday 's market cropped dresdner 's share price by 33 marks to 309 marks a share , leaving little incentive for investors to subscribe to the standing price unless the market recovers quickly . london : headed toward a record drop at midday , the london stock market recouped two-thirds of its losses in the wake of new york 's early rally . the financial times-stock exchange 100 share index closed off 70.5 points , at 2163.4 , its high for the day , after having plunged 204.2 points at 12:49 p.m . it was big institutions such as norwich union insurance group , scottish amicable investment managers and standard life assurance co. that spearheaded the rally . attracted by low prices and encouraged by new york 's performance , they scooped up equities across the board . volume was 959.3 million shares , more than triple recent levels . paris : late buying gave the paris bourse a parachute after its free fall early in the day . the cac general index ended down 5.4 % at 523.6 , a drop of 29.6 points from friday . `` there was a volatility in the market that i have never seen before , '' said michel vigier , a partner in brokerage firm cholet dupont . `` when wall street turned around shortly after the opening , there was panic buying in paris . '' brokers said that as the news spread that wall street was moving up , traders who had called to place sell orders changed their line in mid-conversation , ordering buys instead . trading was driven primarily by small investors and speculators , with large institutions waiting on the sidelines until late in the day . when wall street turned , however , the big boys entered the market , looking for bargains .