when it 's time for their biannual powwow , the nation 's manufacturing titans typically jet off to the sunny confines of resort towns like boca raton and hot springs . not this year . the national association of manufacturers settled on the hoosier capital of indianapolis for its fall board meeting . and the city decided to treat its guests more like royalty or rock stars than factory owners . the idea , of course : to prove to 125 corporate decision makers that the buckle on the rust belt is n't so rusty after all , that it 's a good place 0 for a company to expand . on the receiving end of the message were officials from giants like du pont and maytag , along with lesser knowns like trojan steel and the valley queen cheese factory . for starters , the executives joined mayor william h. hudnut iii for an evening of the indianapolis symphony orchestra and a guest pianist-comedian victor borge . champagne and dessert followed . the next morning , with a police escort , busloads of executives and their wives raced to the indianapolis motor speedway , unimpeded by traffic or red lights . the governor could n't make it , so the lieutenant governor welcomed the special guests . a buffet breakfast was held in the museum , where food and drinks are banned to everyday visitors . then , in the guests ' honor , the speedway hauled out four drivers , crews and even the official indianapolis 500 announcer for a 10-lap exhibition race . after the race , fortune 500 executives drooled like schoolboys over the cars and drivers . no dummies , the drivers pointed out 0 they still had space on their machines for another sponsor 's name or two . back downtown , the execs squeezed in a few meetings at the hotel before boarding the buses again . this time , it was for dinner and dancing -- a block away . under the stars and moons of the renovated indiana roof ballroom , nine of the hottest chefs in town fed them indiana duckling mousseline , lobster consomme , veal mignon and chocolate terrine with a raspberry sauce . knowing a tasty -- and free -- meal when they eat one , the executives gave the chefs a standing ovation . more than a few ceos say 0 the red-carpet treatment tempts them to return to a heartland city for future meetings . but for now , they 're looking forward to their winter meeting -- boca in february .