fall ballot issues set a record for off-year elections . odd-year elections attract relatively few ballot issues . but the 1989 fall total of 80 , while well below 1988 activity , shows `` a steady ratcheting up in citizen referenda and initiatives , '' says 0 patrick mcguigan , editor of family , law and democracy report . he says 0 the 10 citizen-sparked issues on state ballots this fall represent the most in any odd-year this decade . ballot questions range from a maine initiative on banning cruise missiles to a referendum on increasing the north dakota income tax . ballot watchers say 0 attention already is focused on the 1990 elections . in california , two petition drives for next year 's election are `` essentially finished , '' says 0 david schmidt , author of `` citizen lawmakers . '' mr. mcguigan cites three completed efforts in oklahoma . hot ballot topics are expected to be abortion , the environment and insurance reform . taking a cue from california , more politicians will launch their campaigns by backing initiatives , says 0 david magleby of brigham young university . photograph collecting gains new stature as prices rise . price records are being set at auctions this week . at christie 's , a folio of 21 prints from alfred stieglitz 's `` equivalents '' series sold for $ 396,000 , a single-lot record . other works also have been exceeding price estimates . in part , prices reflect development of a market structure based on such variables as the number of prints . this information used to be poorly documented and largely anecdotal , says 0 beth gates-warren of sotheby 's . `` there is finally some sort of sense in the market , '' she says . corporations and museums are among the serious buyers , giving greater market stability , says 0 robert persky of the photograph collector . `` when i see prints going into the hands of institutions , i know 0 they are n't going to come back on the market . '' most in demand : classic photographs by masters such as stieglitz and man ray . but much contemporary work is also fetching `` a great deal of money , '' says 0 miles barth of the international center of photography . dialing 900 brings callers a growing number of services . currently a $ 300 million-a-year business , 900 telephone service is expected to hit $ 500 million next year and near $ 2 billion by 1992 as uses for the service continue to expand , says 0 joel gross of donaldson , lufkin & jenrette inc . the service -- which costs the caller from 30 cents to $ 25 a minute -- currently is dominated by celebrity chatter , horoscopes and romance lines . but more serious applications are in the wings , and that is where the future growth is expected . `` i 'm starting to see more business transactions , '' says andrea west of american telephone & telegraph co. , noting growing interest in use of 900 service for stock sales , software tutorials and even service contracts . colleges , she says 0 , are eyeing registration through 900 service . charities test the waters , but they face legal barriers to electronic fund raising . `` the thing that will really break this market right open is merchandising , '' ms. west says . much of the 800 service will `` migrate to 900 , '' predicts jack lawless , general manager of us sprint 's 900 product . family pets are improving recovery rates of patients at columbia hospital , milwaukee . patients who receive canine or feline visitors are found to have lower blood pressure and improved appetite and be more receptive to therapy , says 0 mary ann o'loughlin , program coordinator . tired of trimming ? hammacher schlemmer & co. offers a fiber-optic christmas tree that eliminates the need to string lights . the $ 6,500 tree is designed to send continuously changing colored light to dozens of fiber-end bunches . medicine transplant : growth of japanese trade and travel prompts beth israel medical center , new york , to set up a bilingual medical practice . funded by a $ 1 million gift from tokio marine & fire insurance , the service will follow japanese medical protocols , including emphasis on preventative medicine . diaper services make a comeback amid growing environmental concerns . concerned about shrinking landfills and the safety of chemicals used in super-absorbent disposables , parents are returning to the cloth diaper . tiny tots inc. , campbell , calif. , says 0 business is up 35 % in the past year . `` we 're gaining 1,200 new customers each week , '' says jack mogavero of general health care corp. , piscataway , n.j . in syracuse , n.y. , dydee service 's new marketing push stresses environmental awareness . among its new customers : day-care centers that previously spurned the service . the national association of diaper services , philadelphia , says that since january it has gotten more than 672 inquiries from people interested in starting diaper services . elisa hollis launched a diaper service last year because state college , pa. , where she lives , did n't have one . diaper shortages this summer limited growth at stork diaper services , springfield , mass. , where business is up 25 % in also spurring the move to cloth : diaper covers with velcro fasteners that eliminate the need for safety pins . briefs : only 57.6 % of new yorkers watch the local news , the lowest viewership in the country , says 0 a new study by impact resources inc. , columbus , ohio ... . freudtoy , a pillow bearing the likeness of sigmund freud , is marketed as a $ 24.95 tool for do-it-yourself analysis .