claude bebear , chairman and chief executive officer , of axa-midi assurances , pledged to retain employees and management of farmers group inc. , including leo e. denlea jr. , chairman and chief executive officer , if axa succeeds in acquiring farmers . mr. bebear added that the french insurer would keep farmers ' headquarters in los angeles and `` will not send french people 0 to run the company . '' axa would also maintain farmers ' relationships with the insurance exchanges that it manages . mr. bebear made his remarks at a breakfast meeting with reporters here yesterday as part of a tour in which he is trying to rally support in the u.s. for the proposed acquisition . the bid is part of sir james goldsmith 's unfriendly takeover attempt for b.a.t industries plc , the british tobacco , retailing , paper and financial-services giant that acquired farmers last year for $ 5.2 billion . axa has agreed to acquire farmers from sir james 's investment vehicle , hoylake investments ltd. , for $ 4.5 billion plus a $ 1 billion investment in hoylake . any acquisition of farmers needs the approval of insurance commissioners in the nine states where farmers operates , and mr. bebear 's trip will take him to idaho , arizona and new york after his stay here ; he will meet with insurance regulators , legislators , industry excutives and the press . hearings on axa 's acquisition application have been set for nov. 13 in idaho ; nov. 20 in illinois ; nov. 24 and dec. 4 in arizona ; dec. 11 in washington state ; and jan. 8 in oregon . hearings have n't yet been set in texas , ohio and kansas . california 's insurance commissioner does n't hold hearings on acquisition applications . although axa has been rebuffed by farmers and has n't had any meetings with management , mr. bebear nonetheless appears to be trying to woo the company 's executives with promises of autonomy and new-found authority under axa . he said 0 mr. denlea would be a member of the top management team of the axa-midi group of companies , and would `` help define policies and strategies of the group . '' farmers was quick yesterday to point out the many negative aspects 0 it sees in having axa as its parent . for one , axa plans to do away with certain tax credits that have resulted in more than $ 600 million paid to the farmers exchanges during the past few years to offset underwriting losses . those credits result because of taxes that farmers , as the management company , has paid , and have `` proved to be very important for the exchanges , '' a farmers spokesman said 0 . mr. bebear contended that the tax cost to the exchanges under the revised structure would be about $ 8 million a year , which he described as `` peanuts .