two major drug companies posted strong third-quarter earnings , in line with profits already reported by industry leaders and analysts ' expectations . but pfizer inc. , based in new york , reported flat earnings . schering-plough corp. , based in madison , n.j. , reported a 21 % rise in earnings as american home products corp. of new york posted an 11 % increase in net . american home products american home products said 0 sales and earnings for the third quarter and nine months were at record levels . sales for the third quarter increased 6.5 % to $ 1.51 billion from $ 1.42 billion . sales of health-care products increased 6 % in the third quarter , based in part on strong sales of prescription drugs such as premarin , an estrogen-replacement drug , and sales of the company 's infant formula . american home products said 0 net income benefited from a `` lower effective tax rate , '' reflecting a reduction of foreign tax rates , and additional operations in puerto rico . net also was aided by a gain on the sale of the company 's equity interests in south africa effective sept. 1 . in new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday , american home products closed at $ 102.25 a share , down 75 cents . pfizer pfizer said 0 third-quarter sales increased 4 % to $ 1.44 billion from $ 1.38 billion . the company said 0 net income was flat because of investment in research and development and costs related to launches of several products . the company said 0 the dollar 's continued strengthening reduced world-wide sales growth by three percentage points . pfizer posted its largest gains in healthcare sales , up 3 % , and consumer products , up 23 % . sales by the specialty chemicals and materials science segments were flat , and sales by the agriculture segment declined 5 % . in the health-care segment , pharmaceutical sales increased 4 % and sales of hospital products increased 1 % . during the quarter , pfizer received federal approval of procardia xl , a calcium channel blocker approved for both angina and hypertension , and monorail piccolino , used to open obstructed coronary arteries . in new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday , pfizer closed at $ 67.75 a share , up 75 cents . schering-plough schering-plough said 0 sales gained 2.7 % to $ 743.7 million from $ 724.4 million . in the period , the company completed the sale of its european cosmetics businesses , sold a majority interest in its brazilian affiliate , and announced the reorganization of its over-the-counter drug businesses into a new unit , schering-plough health care products . these actions did n't affect results because the gain on the sale of the european cosmetics businesses was offset by provisions relating to the brazil divestiture and drug restructuring . u.s. pharmaceutical sales rose 15 % , led by allergy , asthma and cold products ; dermatological products ; anti-infectives and anti-cancer products ; and cardiovascular products . world-wide consumer product sales declined 12 % , primarily because of the european cosmetics sale . significantly lower sales of ` stay trim ' diet aids also were a factor in the drop . the maybelline beauty product line had higher sales following a sluggish first half . in big board composite trading , schering-plough shares fell 75 cents to close at $ 74.125 .