a federal appeals court struck down a natural-gas regulation that had prevented pipeline companies from passing to customers part of $ 1 billion in costs from controversial `` take-or-pay '' contracts . the court , in a 3-0 ruling , threw out a deadline set by the federal energy regulatory commission for settling old contract disputes over gas that the pipeline companies reserved but did n't use . ferc 's regulation had given pipelines until march 31 , 1989 , to pass on to customers as much as 50 % of the costs of buying out their broken contracts , which were made with producers when gas prices were high and supplies short . a majority of old contracts were renegotiated by the deadline and settled at steep discounts . but pipeline companies estimate 0 they still face $ 2.4 billion in liabilities from unresolved disputes , including $ 1 billion 0 they fear 0 they wo n't be able to pass on to customers . according to industry lawyers , the ruling gives pipeline companies an important second chance to resolve remaining disputes and take advantage of the cost-sharing mechanism . the court left open whether ferc could reimpose a new deadline later . the court , agreeing with pipeline companies , found 0 the march 31 deadline was `` arbitrary and capricious '' and `` highly prejudicial to the bargaining power of pipelines '' that were forced to negotiate settlement of the old take-or-pay contracts to meet the deadline . a report last month by the interstate natural gas association of america found that pipelines ' settlement costs had jumped in the three months before the deadline to 39 cents on the dollar , from 22 cents on the dollar in 1988 . the court ordered ferc to justify within 60 days not only its cost-sharing deadline , but other major elements of its proposed regulation for introducing more competition into natural-gas transportation . the court also questioned a crediting mechanism that could be used to resolve take-or-pay liabilities . the complex regulation , known in the industry as order 500 , has been hotly contested by all sides , including natural-gas producers , pipelines , local distribution companies and consumers . the court 's decision would allow ferc to change some of its provisions , but ensures 0 it will be reviewed again quickly by the court .