the u.s. , which is finalizing its steel-import quotas , is allocating a larger share of its steel market to developing and newly industrialized countries which have relatively unsubsidized steel industries . meanwhile , the u.s. has negotiated a significant cut in japan 's steel quota , and made only a minor increase to the steel allotment for the european community . brazil , similar to mexico and south korea , is expected to negotiate a somewhat bigger share of the u.s. market than it had under the previous five-year steel quotas , which expired sept. 30 . brazil and venezuela are the only two countries that have n't completed steel talks with the u.s. for the year ending oct. 1 , 1990 . in recent years , u.s. steelmakers have supplied about 80 % of the 100 million tons of steel used annually by the nation . of the remaining 20 % needed , the steel-quota negotiations allocate about 15 % to foreign suppliers , with the difference supplied mainly by canada -- which is n't included in the quota program . other countries that do n't have formal steel quotas with the u.s. , such as taiwan , sweden and argentina , also have supplied steel . some of these countries have in recent years made informal agreements with the u.s. that are similar to quotas . the bush administration earlier this year said 0 it would extend steel quotas , known as voluntary restraint agreements , until march 31 , 1992 . it also said 0 it would use that two-and-a-half year period to work toward an international consensus on freeing up the international steel trade , which has been notoriously managed , subsidized and protected by governments . the u.s. termed its plan , a `` trade liberalization program , '' despite the fact that it is merely an extension . mexico , which was one of the first countries 0 to conclude its steel talks with the u.s. , virtually doubled its quota to 0.95 % of the u.s. steel market from 0.48 % under the previous quotas . south korea , which had 1.9 % under the previous quotas , is set to get a small increase to about 1.95 % . that increase rises to slightly more than 2 % of the u.s. market if a joint korean-u.s. steel project is included . meanwhile , brazil is expected to increase its allowance from the 1.43 % share 0 it has had in recent years . the ec and japan -- the u.s. 's largest steel suppliers -- have n't been filling their quotas to the full extent . the ec steel industry , which has been coping with strong european demand , has been supplying about 5 % of the u.s. market compared with recent quotas of about 6.7 % . japan has been shipping steel 0 to total about 4.5 % of the u.s. market compared with a quota of 5.9 % . in the recent talks , the ec had its quota increased about 300,000 tons , to 7 % of the u.s. market from 6.7 % in 1988 . but its quota has been as high as 6.9 % in 1984 . japan , however , has agreed to cut its quota to about 5 % from 5.9 % previously . japan , the ec , brazil , mexico and south korea provide about 80 % of the steel imported to the u.s. under the quota program . the balance is supplied by a host of smaller exporters , such as australia and venezuela . the u.s. had about an extra 2 % of the domestic steel market 0 to give to foreign suppliers in its quota talks . that was essentially made up of a 1 % increase in the overall quota program and 1 % from cutting japan 's allowance . negotiators from the white house trade office will repeat these quota negotiations next year when they will have another 1 % of the u.s. steel market 0 to allocate . these optional 1%-a-year increases to the steel quota program are built into the bush administration 's steel-quota program to give its negotiators leverage with foreign steel suppliers 0 to try to get them to withdraw subsidies and protectionism from their own steel industries .