bearings inc. said 0 its chairman , john r. cunin , will retire as an officer of the company on jan. 2 . george l. lamore , president and chief executive officer , will become chairman and chief executive upon mr. cunin 's retirement . john c. dannemiller , executive vice president and chief operating officer , will become president and chief operating officer . mr. cunin , 65 years old , was chief executive of the distributor of bearings and power-transmission products from 1982 to 1988 . he will continue as a director . mr. lamore , 63 , a 48-year veteran at bearings , has been president since 1983 . mr. dannemiller , 51 , joined bearings in august 1988 from leaseway transportation corp. , where he was president and chief operating officer . he has been a bearings director since 1985 . the appointments are part of a planned succession at the company . soviet leader mikhail gorbachev opened a major u.s. trade exhibition in moscow and spent two hours touring some of the 150 stalls representing such blue-chip companies as general motors corp. , international business machines corp. and johnson & johnson . at the archer-daniels-midland co. stand , mrs. nelson rockefeller , a board member , offered him a soy burger . he did n't bite . the exhibition by the u.s.-u.s.s.r. trade and economic council underscores the growing u.s. interest in that nation 's market , though trade between the two countries is a minuscule $ 3 billion . the soviet president and his prime minister , nikolai ryzhkov , spent the longest time , about 15 minutes , at the ibm stand , where they got souvenir computer-chip key rings . at the gm stall , they barely looked at a gleaming cadillac , preferring to talk about cooperation possibilities . in beijing , meantime , china opened an international aviation show , but the west 's embargo on military deals and uncertainty about the nation 's stability kept many foreign exhibitors away . officials said 0 91 companies from 14 countries , including the u.s. , had displays , down from about 260 firms from more than 20 countries at the last show in japanese air-conditioner maker daikin industries ltd. was fined two million yen -lrb- $ 14,000 -rrb- for exporting to the soviet union a chemical solution that could be used in missile-guidance systems . a daikin executive in charge of exports when the high-purity halogenated hydrocarbon was sold to the soviets in 1986 received a suspended 10-month jail sentence . judge masaaki yoneyama told the osaka district court 0 daikin 's `` responsibility is heavy because illegal exports lowered international trust in japan . '' sale of the solution in concentrated form to communist countries is prohibited by japanese law and by international agreement . a soviet legislative panel rejected as not radical enough a government proposal on decentralizing economic control . the newspaper leninskoye zamya said 0 the committee decided 0 the plan to parcel out economic powers previously exercised by moscow to the country 's 15 republics `` does n't reflect the radical changes in the soviet federation . '' the committee gave the government until nov. 15 to revise the proposal . the move reflected the growing confidence of the revamped supreme soviet . scott paper co. said 0 it is abandoning a proposed $ 650 million tree-farming project in indonesia because it no longer expects to use as much eucalyptus pulp as previously anticipated . the eucalyptus plantation and pulp mill , which would have covered about 175,000 acres in the irian jaya region , had been approved by indonesia 's investment board . but it was opposed by some environmentalists as a threat to irian jaya 's forests and a potential source of social unrest for the primitive tribes who inhabit them . yaohan departmentstore co. of japan is moving its international-operations headquarters and holding company to hong kong to gain from the british colony 's economic advantages and tax structure . with funds of 5.56 billion hong kong dollars -lrb- us$ 712 million -rrb- , the new company , yaohan international co. , plans to acquire 10 of hong kong 's top restaurants . it also intends to set up an international wholesale market with the singapore government next may and to open a department store in bangkok and shopping centers in malaysia , taiwan , canada , chicago and seattle by december 1990 . the chain currently has 90 retail outlets in japan , seven in the u.s. , three in hong kong and a dozen more scattered around the globe . major european auction houses are turning increasingly to specialized sales . christie 's will soon have a sale of dada and symbolist art while sotheby 's is luring collectors with sales of swiss , german , spanish , australian and canadian paintings . in brussels , hotel de ventes horta auctioned pistols and sabers - along with paintings and jewels . berlin 's villa grisebach will auction art works with pre-sale estimates of less than $ 1,600 on nov. 25 . the auction house , known for its sales of top-drawer 19th and 20th century works , is providing `` a service to clients who do n't want to sell just their fabulous oil paintings , '' says villa grisebach 's vivien reuter . antwerp auctioneer campo is less concerned with market niches than with belgium 's crushing tax and auction-fee burden . `` everything has to be the same between countries , '' says campo 's stefan campo , who is asking clients to sign protest petitions . `` then there 'll be fair competition . '' ending tax-free shopping in the european community after 1992 could threaten more than 3,000 jobs , the international duty free confederation said . instead of banning such shopping , the confederation proposed amending controls to be sure 0 the privilege is n't abused ... . british and argentine diplomats opened talks in madrid aimed at restoring ties severed because of their 1982 war over the falkland islands . britain 's u.n. representative and delegation head crispin tickell called the first meeting `` good , interesting and businesslike .