upjohn co. said 0 it will offer an early retirement package to as many as 1,100 employees in a cost-cutting move expected to result in a fourth-quarter charge . upjohn officials said 0 they could n't estimate the size of the charge until they determine which employees , and how many , will participate in the retirement plan . but the pharmaceutical company said 0 it `` anticipates 0 the long-term savings resulting from the plan 's implementation will more than offset short-term costs . '' the program , available to upjohn employees 55 years old or older , could increase an individual 's retirement benefits 10 % to 20 % . in addition , upjohn is offering a one-time retirement bonus equal to six months of base pay . chairman theodore cooper called the program part of the company 's two-year strategy 0 to implement budget constraints and `` an effective headcount-control program . '' but some analysts questioned how much of an impact the retirement package will have , because few jobs will end up being eliminated . `` it 's a cosmetic move , '' said jonathan s. gelles of wertheim schroder & co . according to upjohn 's estimates , only 50 % to 60 % of the 1,100 eligible employees will take advantage of the plan . upjohn further estimated that about 50 % of the employees who leave for early retirement may be replaced . as a result , upjohn will likely trim only about 275 to 350 of its more than 21,000 jobs world-wide . in composite trading on the new york stock exchange yesterday , upjohn shares rose 87.5 cents to $ 38.875 apiece . an upjohn spokesman said 0 he had `` heard nothing '' 0 to suggest 0 the early retirement package was spurred by shareholder pressure or a potential bidder for the company , which occasionally has been the target of takeover speculation . the company earlier this year adopted a shareholder-rights plan to ward off unwanted suitors . the spokesman said 0 it is the first early retirement plan offered under its two-year cost-control strategy . earlier staff-reduction moves have trimmed about 300 jobs , the spokesman said 0 .