manville corp. said 0 it offered to buy $ 500 million of its convertible preferred stock from the manville personal injury settlement trust in a move that would improve the trust 's liquidity and reduce the potential number of manville shares outstanding . manville said 0 it made the offer within the past several weeks as part of an effort to improve shareholder value . it said 0 it would purchase the stock at market price . manville and a spokeswoman for the trust said that the two are discussing the proposal but a decision has n't been made . `` we are considering that offer along with all other alternatives , '' the trust spokeswoman said . `` we need to look at how to maximize our cash flow to pay our beneficiaries . '' the trust , created as part of manville 's bankruptcy-law reorganization to compensate victims of asbestos-related diseases , owns 7.2 million of the series a convertible preferred shares , which are each convertible into 10 manville common shares . the trust also owns half of manville 's 48 million common shares outstanding . based on manville 's closing price yesterday of $ 9.25 a share , manville 's offer would purchase about 5.4 million of its preferred shares , or about 75 % of the trust 's preferred stock holding . in addition to the stock and 20 % of manville 's profits beginning in 1992 , the trust is supposed to receive $ 2.5 billion over its 27-year life . but it initially was funded with about $ 765 million and may soon face a cash crunch . as of june 30 , it had settled about 15,000 of 81,000 claims filed and its unpaid claims totaled $ 136 million , a large portion of its $ 268 million in cash and marketable securities . since most of its assets are tied to manville , a forest and building products concern , the trust might also want to diversify its holdings . as part of its offer , manville said 0 it requested changes in some covenants between it and the trust to allow manville to `` reflect a more typical corporate ownership and financial structure . '' a manville spokesman would n't elaborate on the proposed changes . but he said 0 they are `` to a large degree , housekeeping , '' although some may generate some disagreement . manville said 0 the shares issued to the trust were intended to be sold , as needed , and that manville has the right of first refusal to buy those shares .