democratic leaders have bottled up president bush 's capital-gains tax cut in the senate and may be able to prevent a vote on the issue indefinitely . senate majority leader george mitchell -lrb- d. , maine -rrb- said 0 he intends to use senate procedures to force advocates of the tax cut to come up with at least 60 votes before they can address the issue . and neither democrats nor republicans are predicting that the capital-gains forces can produce enough votes . `` the 60-vote requirement will be there and they do n't have the 60 votes , '' sen. mitchell said . `` they do n't have the votes 0 to get it passed . '' sen. bob packwood -lrb- r. , ore. -rrb- , the leading republican proponent of the tax cut , did n't disagree . `` i 'm not sure what 's going to happen , '' he said . previously he had said 0 he would be able to find the requisite 60 votes eventually . sen. packwood has offered his capital-gains-cut package as an amendment to a bill , now pending in the senate , that would authorize aid to poland and hungary . democrats are holding up a vote on the amendment by threatening a filibuster , or extended debate . for a cloture vote to stop the filibuster , republicans must muster at least 60 votes . yesterday , sen. packwood acknowledged , `` we do n't have the votes for cloture today . '' the republicans show no sign of relenting . gop leaders continued to press for a vote on the amendment to the eastern europe aid measure . and they threatened to try to amend any other revenue bill in the senate with the capital-gains provision . `` this is serious business ; we 're serious about a capital-gains reduction , '' said kansas sen. robert dole , the senate 's republican leader . `` the strategy is ` let 's vote . ' '' the republicans contend that they can garner a majority in the 100-member senate for a capital-gains tax cut . they accuse the democrats of unfairly using senate rules to erect a 60-vote hurdle . democrats counter that the republicans have often used the same rules to suit their own ends . the two sides also traded accusations about the cost of the packwood plan . democrats asserted that the proposal , which also would create a new type of individual retirement account , was fraught with budget gimmickry that would lose billions of dollars in the long run . republicans countered that long-range revenue estimates were unreliable . the packwood proposal would reduce the tax depending on how long an asset was held . it also would create a new ira that would shield from taxation the appreciation on investments made for a wide variety of purposes , including retirement , medical expenses , first-home purchases and tuition . a white house spokesman said 0 president bush is `` generally supportive '' of the packwood plan .