another fight is brewing between congress and the bush administration over how to pay for the savings-and-loan bailout without adding to the federal budget deficit . in a hearing before the house ways and means committee , the general accounting office and the congressional budget office , which both are arms of congress , advised the new s&l bailout agency to abandon plans to raise temporary working capital through debt issued from an agency that would n't be counted on the federal budget . officials of the resolution trust corp. have said privately that such a plan was the most likely alternative to raise short-term cash for the bailout . instead , the gao and the congressional budget office said 0 , the rtc should consider using treasury debt , which is less expensive and subject to oversight by congress . the spending could be exempted from meeting deficit-reduction targets in the gramm-rudman budget law . the rtc has projected that it will require between $ 50 billion to $ 100 billion in temporary working capital . the borrowing 0 to raise these funds would be paid off as assets of sick thrifts are sold . the new s&l law allows the rtc to issue notes for as much as 85 % of the value of the assets 0 it holds . but higher interest rates paid on off-budget debt could add billions to the bailout costs , and would n't be subject to congressional scrutiny , ways and means members argued 0 . `` to allow this massive level of unfettered federal borrowing without prior congressional approval would be irresponsible , '' said rep. fortney stark -lrb- d. , calif. -rrb- , who has introduced a bill 0 to limit the rtc 's authority to issue debt . the rtc will have to sell or merge hundreds of insolvent thrifts over the next three years . the new s&l bailout law allows $ 50 billion to be spent to sell or merge sick s&ls and their assets , but that is a net cost . in the meantime , the agency must raise cash to maintain assets , such as real estate , until they can be sold . then the short-term debt is paid off through the proceeds of selling the assets . david mullins , assistant secretary of the treasury , said that the working capital is necessary to reduce the final costs of the bailout , by allowing the agency to sell savings and loans without their bad assets , then hold the assets until they can be sold under favorable conditions . he said 0 it has n't yet been determined how the rtc will raise the cash , but the administration does n't want it to be included on the federal budget , because it would `` distort '' the budget process by requiring either exemptions from gramm-rudman or big increases in the budget deficit . but the worst possibility would be raising no working capital , he said 0 . `` if working capital financing is not provided , '' he said , `` the rtc may have to slow -lcb- s&l sales -rcb- or dump acquired assets through fire sales .