switzerland 's most famous raider says 0 he is n't one . werner k. rey believes 0 fortunes are made by being friendly . and in little more than a decade of being friendly -- and at the same time rocking the staid swiss business community with some u.s.-style wheeling and dealing -- the 46-year-old mr. rey has grown from a modest banker to a billionaire . he achieved this in part with an uncanny talent for getting his foot peacefully in the door of established european companies . his latest coup : september 's masterminding of the five billion swiss-franc -lrb- $ 3.07 billion -rrb- merger between adia s.a. , the world 's second-largest temporary employment agency , and inspectorate international s.a. , a rey-controlled product-inspection company . shareholders must approve the merger at general meetings of the two companies in late november . but approval is almost certain since mr. rey and a friendly adia management are in control . after the transaction , mr. rey estimates 0 the value of his 20 % stake in the new company , 0 to be held by his omni holding ag , will be about 1 billion swiss francs . this will be his return on an original investment of between 50 million swiss francs and 80 million swiss francs . mr. rey bought a controlling stake in inspectorate for 18 million swiss francs in 1982 , building up the little-known engineering company with european and u.s. acquisitions . `` i like to succeed , '' says mr. rey during a recent morning of working at home , which he also likes . home is an estate with green meadows opening onto lake geneva and a low-slung house whose rooms overlook the water and offer a view of the french alps . in the corner of his reception room is a delicate antique desk piled high with dossiers . there is a small renoir on the wall . zurich-based magazine bilanz lists mr. rey as having a fortune of about 1.5 billion swiss francs . writes bilanz : `` no one in switzerland ever came so far so fast ... he was simply the first in this country 0 to realize that treasures were just lying around waiting to be picked up . in short : rey found companies with weak earnings but rich assets . '' however , the swiss financial press in general , as well as many analysts , have had a hard time making up their minds about mr. rey and his un-swiss ways . for switzerland 's most prestigious newspaper , neue zuercher zeitung , mr. rey seems destined to remain the `` former bally raider , '' an image that has proved hard 0 to overcome . in 1976 , as an upstart in the eyes of switzerland 's establishment , mr. rey laid the foundations of his present-day prominence with an unheard-of raid on bally , the country 's traditional shoemaker . sitting beside a banker at a luncheon in london , where he was working as a financial consultant , he learned that a large packet of bally 's shares was up for sale . looking into bally , he could hardly believe what he saw : a company with enormous real-estate holdings in major european cities and a market capitalization of 28 million swiss francs ; it had 7,000 employees . investing four million swiss francs earned from his financial transactions and two million swiss francs from his parents and his wife , mr. rey acquired 20 % of bally 's shares . but such tactics were alien to switzerland in 1976 , and still are n't common because of share restrictions that companies are allowed to maintain . eventually , mr. rey was forced to sell his bally shares to the weapons maker oerlikon-buehrle holding ag as establishment pressure grew on this hostile move into the swiss old boys ' network . mr. rey made 50 million swiss francs on the sale . `` bally was not an unfriendly takeover , '' he insists . buying from willing shareholders makes an unfriendly takeover impossible , mr. rey contends 0 . `` i bought from willing shareholders . '' nevertheless , mr. rey has been very careful since then to make sure 0 his moves are welcome . and he has worked to shed his raider image . in 1979 , his career as an industrialist began with the acquisition of the swiss metals works selve , based in thun . with the nonferrous metals business undermined in switzerland by tough foreign competition and high domestic costs , this looked like a dull undertaking . but mr. rey brought about a merger in the next few years between the country 's major producers ; the increased efficiency has perked up the industry . three years later , machinery producer ateliers de constructions mecaniques de vevey s.a. was to become part of the rey empire . once again the company 's future looked less than rosy . but after restructuring under new management , the profits began rolling in . a major boost to mr. rey 's respectability among the swiss came in 1986 when he sold 60 % of his phibro bank to the conservative swiss cantonal banks . they renamed it swiss cantobank and are using it to expand abroad . in 1987 , mr. rey bested leading publishing houses to take over switzerland 's jean frey ag , a major producer of magazines and newspapers . and with the recent acquisition of 30 % of winterthur-based machinery manufacturer gebrueder sulzer ag , mr. rey has enjoyed the status of white knight . sulzer preferred him to financier tito tettamanti , whose secretive raid on the company 's stock had led to a bitter battle . meanwhile , as such strategic investments have mounted , the merchant-banking arm of mr. rey 's omni holding has been busily buying and selling dozens of companies , often after a financial or corporate restructuring . today , this branch of mr. rey 's empire runs under the name omnicorp offering services and handles mergers and acquisitions , placement of securities and real estate . in its portfolio are such diverse companies as united kingdom-based air europe ; checkrobot inc. , a u.s. company that makes supermarket checkout machines ; norment industries , a u.s. manufacturer of securities systems ; com systems inc. , a u.s. regional telephone company ; and major real-estate projects in the u.s. and europe . for financial analysts , reading omni 's accounts is a tough challenge . `` companies move in and out , '' says helga kern of kk swiss investment . financial analysts note that mr. rey is attracted to companies that are undervalued on the basis of their real-estate interests . in august , omni unexpectedly bought inspectorate 's 80 % stake in harpener ag of west germany , a land-rich company . the internal transaction within the rey empire puzzled harpener 's small shareholders , but analysts say 0 it makes sense for inspectorate-adia to focus on its main businesses of product inspection and temporary help . mr. rey says 0 the move is yet another example of his conservatism . he explains that companies with real estate give `` security . '' the real estate can be used , he points out 0 , as guarantees for bank loans for corporate development . he says 0 he wants to `` influence '' but not `` manage '' companies . `` i do n't want to be like -lcb- financier alan -rcb- bond and the other australians . i do n't want companies to be built around me as a person . i want them to stand alone .