david evans , who last week resigned as president and chief executive of qintex entertainment inc. `` for personal reasons '' just as the company filed for bankruptcy-law protection , has been temporarily reappointed to both positions , the company said 0 . qintex entertainment also said 0 chief financial officer and treasurer jonathan lloyd , 37 years old , would join the nine-member board . he succeeds roger kimmel , who resigned last week saying 0 his participation in evaluating the company 's role in buying mgm\/ua communications co. was no longer necessary . mr. evans will stay until a successor is found , but not later than the end of the year , the company said 0 . it was the 49-year-old mr. evans who had moved into the offices of mgm\/ua and run the company during qintex australia ltd. 's aborted bid for the movie company . after mgm\/ua terminated the $ 1.5 billion merger because of a dispute over a $ 50 million letter of credit , qintex entertainment -- which is 43%-owned by qintex australia -- found itself facing problems of its own . and the relationship between qintex entertainment and the australian company appears to be quickly deteriorating . on oct. 19 , qintex entertainment was about to default on a $ 5.9 million payment owed to mca inc. in connection with the distribution of a television program . qintex entertainment was depending on qintex australia to arrange financing . but early on oct. 19 , the second of two hectic days of board meetings , mr. evans said 0 he believed 0 qintex australia would n't be forthcoming . he recommended that the company file for protection under chapter 11 of the u.s. bankruptcy code before the mca deadline , according to a source familiar with the sessions . but a majority of the board , which includes three members from the australian company , overrode him . mr. evans resigned . later in the day , according to the source , the board reversed itself , decided to file for bankruptcy protection , and asked mr. evans to stay on . mr. evans told the board 0 he needed the weekend to think about it . mr. evans could n't be reached yesterday for comment . last monday , qintex australia announced a restructuring plan and said 0 it would sell off assets . last week the company indicated 0 it would cut back on the working capital 0 it would supply to qintex entertainment . separately , a qintex entertainment shareholder filed suit in federal court in los angeles charging qintex australia with misleading shareholders about qintex entertainment 's financial position . qintex australia said 0 it had n't seen the suit and could n't comment .