ko shioya spent eight years as the editor in chief of the japanese edition of reader 's digest . `` japan has been a major importer of foreign information and news , '' says mr. shioya . `` but one gets fed up with importing information and news . '' mr. shioya has turned the tables . today , he is publisher of business tokyo magazine , the first english-language business magazine devoted to coverage of japanese business . after a slick redesign , the two-year-old magazine has been relaunched this month by its parent company , keizaikai corp. , the tokyo-based company with interests that include financial services , book publishing and a tourist agency . printed in the u.s. and carrying the line `` the insider 's japan , '' business tokyo 's october cover story was `` the world 's no. 1 customer '' -- japanese women . keizaikai is one of a small but growing band of japanese companies taking their first steps into american publishing , after making major investments in entertainment , real estate and banking companies here . japanese concerns have retained a number of publishing consultants and media brokers 0 to study the u.s. market , including the new york-based investment banker veronis , suhler & associates . and they are quietly linking up with u.s. publishing trade groups . `` japanese publishers want to be introduced to the publishing and information industries , '' said john veronis , chairman of veronis suhler . while there are n't any major deals in the works currently on the scale of sony corp. 's recent $ 3.4 billion agreement to buy columbia pictures entertainment inc. , observers do n't rule out a transaction of that size . `` the japanese take the long view . '' said mr. veronis . `` it may not be weeks or months , but they are also opportunistic and if they feel comfortable , they will move on a deal , '' he said . in recent months , three big tokyo-based publishing concerns -- including nikkei business publications , nikkei home -lrb- no relation -rrb- , and magazine house -- applied for membership in magazine publishers of america , which represents almost all u.s. consumer magazines . japanese involvement in american publishing has been so small to date that magazines such as business tokyo are considered groundbreakers . when keizaikai launched business tokyo in 1987 , it appealed to a more multinational audience . the magazine was overhauled with the aid of american magazine design gurus milton glaser and walter bernard , and targets top-level u.s. executives with japanese and american advertisers . american publishers appear more than ready to do some selling . susumu ohara , president of nihon keizai shinbun america inc. , publisher of the japan economic journal , said 0 he receives telephone calls weekly from media bankers on whether his parent company is interested in buying a u.s. consumer or business magazine . `` the japanese are in the early stage right now , '' said thomas kenney , a onetime media adviser for first boston corp. who was recently appointed president of reader 's digest association 's new magazine publishing group . `` before , they were interested in hard assets and they saw magazines as soft . now they realize 0 magazines are as much a franchise as nabisco is a franchise .