dismal sales at general motors corp. dragged the u.s. car and truck market down below year-ago levels in early october , the first sales period of the 1990 model year . the eight major domestic auto makers sold 160,510 north american-made cars in the first 10 days of october , a 12.6 % drop from a year earlier . domestically built truck sales were down 10.4 % to 86,555 pickups , vans and sport utility vehicles . the heavy use of incentives to clear out 1989 models appears to have taken the steam , at least initially , out of 1990 model sales , which began officially oct. 1 . this appears particularly true at gm , which had strong sales in august and september but saw its early october car and truck results fall 26.3 % from last year 's unusually high level . overall , sales of all domestic-made vehicles fell 11.9 % from a year ago . without gm , overall sales for the other u.s. automakers were roughly flat with 1989 results . some of the u.s. auto makers have already adopted incentives on many 1990 models , but they may have to broaden their programs to keep sales up . `` we 've created a condition where , without incentives , it 's a tough market , '' said tom kelly , sales manager for bill wink chevrolet in dearborn , mich . car sales fell to a seasonally adjusted annual selling rate of 5.8 million vehicles , the lowest since october 1987 . the poor performance contrasts with a robust selling rate of almost eight million last month . furthermore , dealers contacted late last week said 0 they could n't see any immediate impact on sales of friday 's steep market decline . gm 's domestic car sales dropped 24.3 % and its domestic trucks were down an even steeper 28.7 % from the same period a year ago . all of the gm divisions except cadillac showed big declines . cadillac posted a 3.2 % increase despite new competition from lexus , the fledging luxury-car division of toyota motor corp . lexus sales were n't available ; the cars are imported and toyota reports their sales only at month-end . the sales drop for the no. 1 car maker may have been caused in part by the end in september of dealer incentives that gm offered in addition to consumer rebates and low-interest financing , a company spokesman said 0 . last year , gm had a different program in place that continued rewarding dealers until all the 1989 models had been sold . aside from gm , other car makers posted generally mixed results . ford motor co. had a 1.8 % drop in domestic car sales but a 2.4 % increase in domestic truck sales . chrysler corp. had a 7.5 % drop in car sales , echoing its generally slow performance all year . however , sales of trucks , including the company 's popular minivans , rose 4.3 % . honda motor co. 's sales of domestically built vehicles plunged 21.7 % from a year earlier . honda 's plant in marysville , ohio , was gearing up to build 1990 model accords , a honda spokesman said 0 . `` we 're really confident 0 everything will bounce back to normal , '' he added . separately , chrysler said 0 firm prices on its 1990-model domestic cars and minivans will rise an average of 5 % over comparably equipped 1989 models . firm prices were generally in line with the tentative prices announced earlier this fall . at that time , chrysler said 0 base prices , which are n't adjusted for equipment changes , would rise between 4 % and 9 % on most vehicle . a - totals include only vehicle sales reported in period . c - domestic car d - percentage change is greater than 999 % . x - there were 8 selling days in the most recent period and 8 a year earlier . percentage differences based on daily sales rate rather than sales volume .