why is the stock market suddenly so volatile ? yesterday , the dow jones industrial average did a now familiar dance : it plunged 60.25 points before lunch , with most of the drop occurring in 25 minutes . then , it rebounded to finish down only 18.65 points . and those swings paled beside friday 's 190.58-point plunge and monday 's 88.12-point recovery . `` it 's madness -- that in an hour you can whack off so much value , '' says stanford calderwood , chairman of trinity investment management corp. , boston . and , apparently , it is here to stay . richard bernstein , senior quantitative analyst at merrill lynch & co , says , 0 `` my gut feel is that we 'll live with those swings for a while . '' there are many reasons for the market 's jumpiness : new trading vehicles such as stock-index futures and options ; computer-driven strategies like program trading ; and crowd psychology . but most are linked by a single theme : liquidity -- the ability to get in and out of the market quickly . prices are moving up and down so fast because investors are employing ways 0 to turn over shares at ever-faster rates and increasingly acting in concert . `` institutions are herding animals , '' says peter anderson , who heads the pension-fund management arm of ids financial services inc . `` we watch the same indicators and listen to the same prognosticators . like lemmings , we tend to move in the same direction at same time . '' and that , naturally , exacerbates price movements . institutions -- who now account for most trading -- count on being able to buy and sell big blocks of stock at an eye-blink . but when they discover that markets are n't always as liquid as they supposed -- markets jump . on monday , for instance , howard ward , a principal at scudder , stevens & clark , found that `` you could n't buy blue-chips at quoted prices without paying up . '' and when many firms had to `` pay up , '' monday 's sudden rally was sparked . trading in futures and options , some people believe 0 , can add to volatility . investors believe 0 they can can rely on such derivative securities to get in and out of the stock market without actually selling any stocks ; that is , a way of staying liquid even when they own stocks . these and other modern trading methods `` tend to promote dramatic shifts in assets , '' says 0 george douglas , first vice president at drexel burnham lambert inc . `` it 's the idea that what goes in easy can come out easy '' -- so that bouts of higher volatility get built into the stock market . one new investment style called `` asset allocation '' shifts portfolio weightings between stocks , bonds and cash when computer models say 0 one is more attractive . for instance , first quadrant corp. , an asset allocator based in morristown , n.j. , said 0 it quickly boosted stock positions in its `` aggressive '' accounts to 75 % from 55 % to take advantage of plunging prices friday . it added another 5 % monday before stocks rallied . when they did , the firm reduced those stock holdings to about 70 % . a classic example of institutions ' hunger for liquidity is portfolio insurance , now widely discredited . before the 1987 crash , an estimated $ 60 billion in institutional money was managed under this hedging technique . the idea was to `` insure '' the value of a portfolio by selling futures when stock prices dropped -- eliminating the need to sell the stocks themselves . but in october 1987 , when portfolio insurers rushed to sell at the same time , they overwhelmed both the stock and futures markets . yet even today , institutions are quietly practicing forms of portfolio insurance by nervously rushing to and fro in the markets . others are doing `` index arbitrage '' a strategy of taking advantage of price discrepancies between stocks and futures . unlike traditional buy-and-hold strategies , all of the above require that market makers be on hand to provide liquidity by buying and selling stocks in a crunch . but institutions say 0 wall street brokerage firms are less willing to make markets . brokers do n't deny that . wall street traders say that , with institutional brokerage commissions far lower than in the 1970s , securities firms ca n't afford to take the risk of buying too much stock . `` i think 0 everyone 's a little more leery , '' says jack baker , head of equity trading at shearon lehman hutton inc . `` the institutions have driven -lrb- commission -rrb- rates down to the point where it makes no sense to commit capital , '' says tom gallagher , senior executive vice president in charge of institutional trading at oppenheimer & co . `` why should i risk money for a guy for who 's paying me five cents a dance ? all 0 you get is risk . '' lack of liquidity can also result from exchange `` reforms . '' many traders say that `` circuit breakers '' put in place to damp volatility after the 1987 crash actually added to volatility when the stock market plunged friday . the circuit breakers caused a 30-minute shutdown in trading in standard & poor 's 500-stock index futures contract as the markets were falling . `` with the futures-trading halt , you could only sell stocks '' to cut exposure to the market , says 0 a money manager . `` it was scary to people thinking that they could n't get their trades off . '' `` it was like they put you in a room with a gorilla and told you 0 there were three doors 0 to exit , '' said one chicago-based futures trader . `` then they said , ` 0 by the way , two of the doors are locked . ' '' the takeover mania also adds to volatility . ual corp. is a good example . valued as a buy-out target , the airline stock was trading at nearly $ 280 a share . when the deal ran into trouble , the stock tumbled ; it closed at $ 198 yesterday . presumably , ual is now trading closer to its value based on earnings . by contrast , traditional buy-and-hold investors are unlikely to generate sudden price moves . scott black , a value-oriented money manager who heads delphi management inc. , points out that for those who invest on fundamentals , `` the value of a stock from day to day does n't change all that much . '' some experts say 0 markets are n't as volatile as widely assumed . hans stoll , finance professor at vanderbilt university , says 0 the current volatility in u.s. markets pales in comparison to the 1930s , decades before derivative instruments such as options and futures were introduced . `` i just ca n't believe that the innovations in the financial market are causing any of this volatility , '' he says . and robert d. arnott , president of asset allocator first quadrant , notes that before friday 's tailspin , daily volatility on the new york stock exchange in recent weeks had reached `` historically low levels . '' some people tend to ignore that a 50-point move is less in percentage terms than it was when the stock market was lower . john j. phelan jr. , chairman of the big board , asserts that `` 1988 and 1989 have been two of the least volatile years in the last 30 or 40 years . '' but the low average volatility 0 mr. phelan is talking about is n't any comfort in a period of rapid stock-market moves like the past week . in addition , sanford grossman , a wharton school finance professor , says 0 volatile jumps in stock prices will continue as long as liquidity falls short of the voracious demands of institutions `` who can go out and say ` i have a billion dollars of stocks 0 to sell . ' '' some people think 0 the search for liquidity is fruitless . in 1936 , john maynard keynes wrote that `` of the maxims of orthodox finance none , surely , is more antisocial than the fetish of liquidity . '' it leads investors to focus on short-term price movements -- `` a game of musical chairs , '' he called it -- rather than on long-term fundamental valuation . james a. white contributed to this article .