in one of the first indoor air-pollution cases 0 to go to trial , a state-court jury decided in favor of the defendant , burlington industries inc . the verdict , reached late last week in cincinnati , may end an eight-year legal battle for the greensboro , n.c. , carpet maker . glenn and sharon beebe of cincinnati had sued the com - pany in 1981 after installing burlington carpets in their office . the beebes alleged that toxic fumes from the carpets made them sick . as a result of their illness , the beebes said 0 , they lost $ 1.8 million in wages and earnings . in addition , they said that months of exposure to the chemicals has left them sensitive to a wide range of commonly used substances . the case had been closely watched because attorneys anticipate increasing litigation nationally over the so-called sick-building syndrome . plaintiffs ' lawyers say that buildings become `` sick '' when inadequate fresh air and poor ventilation systems lead pollutants to build up inside . anthony j. iaciofano , a lawyer for burlington , said 0 the company believes 0 the beebes ' symptoms were not related to the carpeting . he said that ill effects from new carpets manifest themselves immediately but that the beebes ' symptoms appeared months later . catherine adams , the beebes ' lawyer , said 0 the verdict would not discourage other plaintiffs from filing such suits . scientists are only beginning to understand what causes sick-building syndrome and much of that research was unavailable when the beebes filed the case , she said 0 . the beebes now believe that a prime culprit for their injuries was fumes from an adhesive used in the carpeting . but the beebes did n't come to that conclusion until time limits had elapsed for adding the adhesives maker as a defendant in the case , ms. adams said 0 . the beebes have not yet decided whether to appeal . times square development opponents are dealt setback . the appellate division of new york state supreme court dismissed six lawsuits attempting to block a $ 2.5 billion project planned for 42nd street in manhattan . opponents of the project had claimed that the city and the state of new york , which are co-sponsoring the project , had failed to adhere to environmental guidelines . all but two of the 40 or so lawsuits that have been filed since the project 's 1984 approval have been dismissed before the trial stage . the two that remain have n't yet reached the pre-trial fact-finding stage . state officials said 0 the court 's ruling clears the way for proceedings 0 to condemn buildings in the area . `` this project is ready to move , '' said state urban development corp. chairman vincent tese . but developers of four planned office towers cautioned that obstacles still remain . as part of the agreement with the state , the developers -- a partnership of park tower realty and prudential insurance co. of america -- said 0 they would not proceed with condemnation proceedings while there was `` significant litigation '' pending . park tower general counsel matthew mayer said 0 the development team will have to review two additional lawsuits before putting up a $ 155 million letter of credit 0 to cover condemnation costs . also , he said 0 , the partnership is waiting to see whether the appellate division 's ruling will be appealed . the plan , which has been plagued with delays and business-related setbacks , seeks to transform the area from a seedy thoroughfare to a more wholesome office and theater district . state and city officials are still negotiating with developers to renovate historic theaters and build and operate a merchandise mart and hotel . federal judge expands role of u.s. courts in extradition decisions . u.s. district judge jack b. weinstein of brooklyn , n.y. , ruled that a man implicated in an attack on an israeli passenger bus in 1986 can be extradited to israel for trial . a magistrate had initially refused the request , ruling that the attack had been a political act for which the man , mahmoud el-abed ahmad , would be exempt from extradition . however , judge weinstein wrote in his opinion late last month that terrorism and acts of war against civilians can not be defined as political acts . judge weinstein also ruled that judges must consider prior to extradition whether the defendant will be treated fairly in a foreign court . to do so , the judge said 0 , the u.s. courts must review the judicial process in the foreign country independently of the state department 's assessment . he said that in this case he concurred with the state department 's decision that mr. ahmad should be extradited . mr. ahmad 's lawyer said 0 he would appeal . lawyers close to the case said 0 they believed 0 the ruling was unprecedented . `` up until now the courts have said 0 it is not their role to supervise the foreign country 's courts , '' said jacques semmelman , the assistant u.s. attorney on the case . former canadian ambassador to the u.s. allan e. gotlieb has joined the philadelphia law firm of pepper , hamilton & scheetz as a consultant . mr. gotlieb , who serves as a consultant to stikeman , elliott , one of canada 's biggest law firms , is advising pepper hamilton 's washington office on legal matters related to canadian-u.s. investment , corporate finance and international transactions . quotable : in a speech prepared for delivery in new york yesterday , retired justice lewis powell contested the notion that the last supreme court term marked a turn toward conservatism : `` commentators who agreed on little else unanimously proclaimed a ` shift in direction ' on the court ... . i take these pronouncements , like many that have preceded them in past years , with a grain of salt . in an era of ` sound bites ' and instant opinion polls it is dangerous to apply broad labels to a single term .