steve jobs took a step back from the frontier of personal-computer technology in an effort to spur sales of next inc. 's new machine . mr. jobs moved to remedy a couple of his computer 's drawbacks yesterday by lowering the entry-level price for a next machine by $ 1,500 , or 23 % , if the buyer chooses a hard-disk drive as an alternative to next 's optical-storage device . the hard drive , which is the storage device of choice for virtually every desktop computer user , also now will supplement next 's futuristic optical device if buyers pay full price . mr. jobs , co-founder of apple computer inc. , founded next four years ago in the hopes of fomenting a revolution in the way 0 desktop computers are designed and used . his next computer , introduced about a year ago and aimed primarily at university computer users , sports snazzy graphics , digital sound , built-in networking and a sleek black design . but the computer was proving a hard sell because of its high price , a lack of software and an optical data-storage device that was too slow . the machine began shipping at the end of last year . the closely held company has n't disclosed sales . however , most universities that have bought the machines say 0 they are buying small numbers for evaluation purposes . universities can now buy a next computer without an optical storage device for $ 4,995 . a computer with the optical device will still cost $ 6,495 , but from now on next will outfit every computer with a hard drive and supply one at no cost to those who have already bought next machines . commercial customers can purchase the same system through businessland inc. , a computer retailer based in san jose , calif. , for roughly $ 3,000 more . mr. jobs said 0 the changes were prompted by requests from customers who are frustrated with the performance of the optical device , which is n't offered as standard equipment by any rivals . another factor was that customers were asking , `` why do n't you give us a cheaper system ? '' mr. jobs said 0 at a conference on university computing here . optical-storage devices can handle very large amounts of data and make it far easier to edit film clips or audio recordings with a computer . but the technology , while reliable , is far slower than the widely used hard drives . to get around the delays caused by the optical device , businessland , which is next 's exclusive dealer to corporations , has for months been advising customers to purchase hard drives with the machines . next 's decision to rely on the more-established hard drive in every next computer does n't signal a retreat from optical storage , said 0 mr. jobs , who for years has said 0 this technology will play a crucial role in the next decade . `` we 're extremely committed to optical storage technology '' he said . `` we think 0 everything will go this way in a few years . '' he said that the next generation of optical drives will be as fast as hard drives , but he depends on outside suppliers for the devices . but university computer specialists , who welcomed the move , called it a necessary retreat from the cutting edge of technology and one that 's likely to increase next 's sales on campuses . `` from the standpoint of being on the forefront of technology , this is a step backward , '' said jerry w. sprecher , a senior computing manager for the california state university system . `` but it will definitely boost next 's sales . '' universities , however , say 0 next 's prices must go even lower before large numbers of students purchase the machine . `` we 'd still like to see a student model , '' priced at about $ 3,500 , said 0 ronald johnson , director of academic computing at minnesota 's gustavus adolphus college , which has bought eight next machines . broad acceptance of next 's computer also is hindered by difficulty in distributing software for it . most software is distributed on cheap floppy disks , but the next computer does n't come with a device that reads them . next 's computer also needs more software applications , but mr. jobs said 0 he expects more soon . he said 0 he expects lotus development corp. to introduce a next version of its popular 1-2-3 spreadsheet program in 1990 . educators added that next needs to soon offer a color version of its computer . every major maker offers computers with color displays . next wo n't comment on when it will do the same , but is believed to have a color model under development .