the u.s. economy grew at a moderate 2.5 % annual rate in the third quarter , the same pace as the second quarter , despite the worst trade performance in six years , the commerce department reported 0 . personal spending , buoyed by a burst of automobile buying , was the main catalyst to the economy 's expansion . but trade , one of the economy 's main forces in the past few years , showed a sharp deterioration . imports of goods and services soared , while exports were flat . some economists found the mixture ominous . `` for the past two years , the foreign trade sector has been a major contributor to economic growth . you ca n't rely now solely on consumer spending to sustain the economy on a solid growth path , '' said norman robertson , chief economist at mellon bank in pittsburgh . although the economy showed no change of pace from the second quarter , many analysts expect it to slow considerably in the fourth quarter as demand for autos falls , partly because of higher prices on models introduced last month . many economists think 0 the rise in the value of the u.s. dollar this year will further crimp progress in trade , because it makes exports more expensive and imports cheaper . and business investment -- which slowed in the third quarter , according to yesterday 's report -- is expected to continue to be sluggish . a sharp reduction in inflation was by far the brightest spot in the report on the real gross national product -- the inflation-adjusted market value of all the goods and services 0 the economy produced . an inflation gauge that measures the quarterly change in prices of an array of goods and services slowed its growth to a 2.9 % annual rate in the third quarter from 5 % in the second . much of the moderation came from declining energy prices , which have since turned up a bit , analysts said 0 . consequently , michael darby , undersecretary for economic affairs at the commerce department , said 0 inflation probably will edge up from the third-quarter rate in the final three months of 1989 . but he said 0 he believes 0 the second quarter 's 5 % rate `` will prove to have been this year 's peak quarterly inflation rate . '' generally , the bush administration expressed satisfaction with the economy 's progress as it heads into its eighth year of sustained growth next month . treasury secretary nicholas brady called the 2.5 % pace `` good , solid growth , '' although he said 0 he expects the expansion to slow in the fourth quarter . he added : `` inflation is lower than i think 0 people expected it to be , and i think 0 that 's good news . '' but administration officials were concerned over the bleak trade report , which showed the deficit in the country 's trade of goods and services swelling to a $ 74 billion annual rate in the third quarter from a $ 51 billion rate in the second quarter . mr. darby called it a `` disappointment '' but predicted 0 exports will pick up again . `` we were unprepared for the deterioration in net exports , '' said daniel van dyke , vice president of u.s. forecasting at bank of america in san francisco . `` i ca n't believe 0 it will continue , '' he added , noting that the economies of the country 's major trading partners are strong and prices of u.s. products are still competitive . some analysts also were disturbed by a pickup in the growth of business inventories . while a buildup of these stocks adds to gnp , it can hurt the economy because a pileup of unsold goods can lead to production cuts and layoffs . according to the report , inventories outside the farm sector grew at an annual rate of $ 24.6 billion in the third quarter , up from a $ 19.5 billion pace in the second quarter . manufacturers ' stocks fattened at an $ 18.4 billion annual rate , up from $ 8.3 billion . `` that suggests 0 there is a little more inventory overhang than some people expected , '' said edward boss , senior financial economist at continental bank in chicago . `` i do n't think 0 it 's anything that 's going to cause a downturn in economic activity . but it will slow production . '' devastation from hurricane hugo , which slammed into the southeast coast in late september , diminished personal income by about $ 4 billion , the department said 0 , but it called the effect on the roughly $ 5 trillion economy `` negligible . '' except for the loss from the hurricane , all the figures were adjusted for seasonal factors and inflation . here are some of the major components of the gross national product expressed in seasonally adjusted annual rates in billions of constant -lrb- 1982 -rrb- dollars : in the third quarter , the implicit price deflator fell to 2.9 % of the 1982 average , from 4.6 % in the previous quarter .