sitting at the bar of the four seasons restaurant , architect william mcdonough seems oblivious to the glamorous clientele and the elegant setting . he is ogling the curtains rippling above the ventilation ducts . `` look how much air is moving around ! '' he says . `` the ventilation here is great ! '' you may be hearing more about the 38-year-old mr. mcdonough and his preoccupation with clean air . after years of relative obscurity , he is starting to attract notice for the ecological as well as the aesthetic quality of his architecture . mr. mcdonough believes that the well-being of the planet depends on such stratagems as opening windows to cut indoor air pollution , tacking down carpets instead of using toxic glues , and avoiding mahogany , which comes from endangered rain forests . he has put some of his aesthetic ideas into practice with his design of the four-star quilted giraffe restaurant -- `` architecturally impeccable , '' progressive architecture magazine called it -- and his remodeling of paul stuart , the madison avenue clothing store . he has designed furniture and homes as well as commercial and office space . he is now designing a broadway stage set for a show by the band kid creole and the coconuts . what really stirs his muse , though , is aerobic architecture . now the question is : is poland ready for it ? mr. mcdonough is about to tackle his biggest clean-air challenge yet , the proposed warsaw trade center in poland , the first such center in eastern europe . the project has already acquired a certain new york cachet . bloomingdale 's plans to sell a foot-tall chocolate model of the center during the holidays . some of the sales proceeds will go to the design industries foundation for aids . a cake topped with a replica of the center will be auctioned at an aids benefit at sotheby 's in december . if mr. mcdonough 's plans get executed , as much of the polish center as possible will be made from aluminum , steel and glass recycled from warsaw 's abundant rubble . a 20-story mesh spire will stand atop 50 stories of commercial space . solar-powered batteries will make the spire glow . the windows will open . the carpets wo n't be glued down , and walls will be coated with nontoxic finishes . to the extent that the $ 150 million budget will allow it , mr. mcdonough will rely on solid wood , rather than plywood or particle board , to limit the emission of formaldehyde . if mr. mcdonough has his way , the poles will compensate for the trade center 's emissions of carbon dioxide , a prime suspect in the global atmospheric warming 0 many scientists fear . the poles would plant a 10-square-mile forest somewhere in the country at a cost of $ 150,000 , with the center 's developer footing the bill . the news has n't exactly moved others in mr. mcdonough 's profession to become architectural johnny appleseeds . all architects want to be aware of the ecological consequences of their work , says 0 john burgee , whose new york firm is designing the redevelopment of times square , `` but we ca n't all carry it to that extreme . '' karen nichols , senior associate at michael graves 's architecture firm in princeton , n.j. , says : `` we 're really at the mercy of what the construction industry can and will do readily . '' mr. mcdonough responds : `` i 'm asking people to broaden their agendas . '' the son of a seagram 's executive who was stationed in many countries around the world , mr. mcdonough was born in tokyo and attended 19 schools in places ranging from hong kong to shaker heights , ohio , before entering dartmouth college . he earned a master 's degree in architecture from yale . his interest in the natural environment dates from his youth . he and his father still spend time each summer fly-fishing for salmon in iceland . living in hong kong , he says 0 , made him sensitive to the limits on food , power and water supplies . at his first school in the u.s. he was thought a little strange for shutting off open water taps and admonishing his schoolmates to take only brief showers . he and a dartmouth roommate established a company that restored three hydroelectric power plants in vermont . at yale , he designed one of the first solarheated houses 0 to be built in ireland . mr. mcdonough 's first professional project 0 fully to reflect his environmental ardor was his 1986 design for the headquarters of the environmental defense fund in new york . the offices took 10,000 square feet of a building with 14-foot ceilings and big , operable windows . since the 1970s energy crisis , some efforts to conserve energy by sealing buildings have had an unintended side effect : high indoor pollution . to reduce it at the fund 's building , workers rubbed beeswax instead of polyurethane on the floors in the executive director 's office . jute , rather than a synthetic material , lies under the tacked-down carpets , and the desks are of wood and granite instead of plastic . the budget was only $ 400,000 . `` athens with spartan means , '' mr. mcdonough says . the fund 's lawyers work in an athenian grove of potted trees . economists and administrators sit along a `` boulevard '' with street lamps and ficus trees . in offices , triphosphorous bulbs simulate daylight . offices with outside windows have inside windows , too , to let in more real daylight . `` we proved 0 a healthy office does n't cost more , '' says frederic krupp , executive director of the fund . it `` really looks beautiful and is very light , '' says ann hornaday , a free-lance writer who has visited the office for lunch meetings . but , she says , `` i guess 0 i did n't really notice the trees . maybe they were hidden by all the people . '' neither the quilted giraffe nor the paul stuart renovation reflects much of mr. mcdonough 's environmental concern . the restaurant was conceived as a sparkling , crystalline `` geode . '' it makes extensive use of stainless steel , silver and aluminum that sets off black granite table tops and a gray terrazzo with zinc-strip floors . to more than replace the wood from two english oaks used for paneling at paul stuart , however , mr. mcdonough and friends planted 1,000 acorns around the country . the ambitious warsaw project still awaits approval by city officials . its developer is a polish american , sasha muniak . he had worked with mr. mcdonough on an earlier project and recruited him as architect for the trade center . the center will provide space for computer hardware and facsimile and other telecommunications equipment , not readily accessible in poland now , for a growing number of westerners doing business in eastern europe . mr. mcdonough thinks of the center as the `` eiffel tower of warsaw '' and `` a symbol of the resurgence of poland . '' if any nation can use environmentally benign architecture , it is poland . jessica mathews , vice president of world resources institute in washington , d.c. , says that perhaps a quarter of poland 's soil is too contaminated for safe farming because of air pollution . the pollution is also killing forests and destroying buildings that date back to the middle ages . the future of the forest remains uncertain . mr. muniak 's company , balag ltd. , has agreed to set aside the money 0 to plant and maintain it , but discussions are still going on over where to place it and how to ensure that it will be maintained . after all , mr. muniak says , `` 0 in poland there are n't too many people worried about the environment . they 're more worried about bread on the table .