-lrb- during its centennial year , the wall street journal will report events of the past century that stand as milestones of american business history . -rrb- the yom kippur war , when egypt crashed into israel on oct. 6 , 1973 , the holiest day in the jewish calendar , lasted barely a month . but one far-afield effect is still with us . the arab states , always bitterly resentful of u.s. support toward israel , realized 0 they held an irresistable weapon -- oil . early in october , six arab nations in the persian gulf jacked up prices sharply . on oct. 22 , led by saudi arabia , the world 's largest exporter , they embargoed oil shipments to the u.s. and to the netherlands , israel 's staunchest european ally . the timing was perfect . the arabs had tried embargos before . in 1956 , when britain , france and israel invaded egypt to seize the suez canal , arab producers cut off supplies to europe . texas simply pumped harder . u.s. oil supplies , however , had peaked in 1970 and 1971 and by 1973 were declining . imports , then six million barrels a day , came primarily from venezuela and canada . but middle east supplies were growing in importance . by 1973 , the u.s. was bringing in two million barrels of arab oil a day , more than 10 % of the 17.3 million barrels consumed daily . politics and economics conspired . japan and europe , far more dependent on mideast oil than the u.s. , would n't offend the arabs or trade off their precious supplies . the u.s. did manage to supply the dutch with oil by relabeling supplies ; once oil is shipped , no one can tell its source . but car-happy americans panicked , and so did the u.s. and other oil-consuming governments . `` shortage '' and `` crisis '' became buzz words , although neither really applied . the spot dislocations that showed up were largely the result of confusion -lrb- much of it in washington -rrb- , though that was cold comfort for drivers waiting in mile-long lines at the gas pumps . the embargo lasted only six months , but the price hikes became a fact of life . what the arabs started , inflation finished . once and for all , $ 5-a-barrel crude oil and 35-cents-a-gallon gasoline were history .