you went to college and thought 0 you got an education . now you discover that you never learned the most important lesson : how to send your kids to college . true , when you went to college , there was n't that much 0 to learn . stick some money in an interest-bearing account and watch it grow . now , investment salesmen say 0 it 's time 0 to take some risks if you want the kind of returns that will buy your toddler a ticket to prestige u. in 18 years . in short , throw away the passbook and go for the glory . the reason is cost . nothing in the annals of tuition readied parents for the 1980s . tuitions at private colleges rose 154 % in the 10 years ended in june of this year ; that 's twice the 77 % increase in consumer prices for the same period . a year at harvard now goes for $ 19,395 . by 2007 , when this year 's newborns hit campus , a four-year ivy league sheepskin will cost $ 300,000 , give or take a few pizzas-with-everything at exam time . stanford , mit and other utmosts will cost no less . so what 's a parent to do ? some investment advisers are suggesting , in effect , a bet on a start-up investment pool -- maybe even on margin . others prefer deep-discount zero-coupon bonds . still others say , why not take a chance on a high-octane growth fund ? `` you 're not going to make it in a 5 % bank account , '' says james riepe , director of mutual funds at t. rowe price . to get the necessary growth , adds 0 murray ruffel , a marketing official at the financial programs mutual-fund group , `` you need to go to the stock market . '' in other words , a little volatility never hurt . it never hurt anyone , that is , unless the growth funds do n't grow when you need them to . or the zero-coupon bonds turn out not to have been discounted deeply enough to pay your kid 's tuition . that 's the dilemma for today 's parent . although many experts are advising risk , no one has a good answer for you if the risk does n't pay off . help may be on the way . the antitrust division of the justice department is investigating the oddly similar tuition charges and increases among the top schools . fear of the price police could help cool things off in the 1990s . and then there 's always state u . but parents ' craving for a top-rated education for their children is growing like their taste for fancy wheels and vintage wine . belatedly aware of public concern , lawmakers and financial middlemen are working overtime to create and sell college savings and investment schemes . their message , explicit or implicit , is that a good college will cost so much by whenever you want it that the tried and true wo n't do anymore . forget about treasury bills or a money-market fund . the latest wave of marketing is instructive . several outfits -- including the financial programs , franklin , and t. rowe price mutual-fund groups and the edward d. jones brokerage house -- are advertising `` college planner '' tables and charts that tell you how much you need to put aside regularly . the calculations generally rely on an after-tax rate of return of 8 % annually -- a rate historically obtainable by the individual in only one place , the stock market . most of the mailers are free , but denver-based financial programs sells , for $ 15 , a version customized to the age of the child and the college of choice . the figures are shocking . to build a nest egg that would pay for stanford when a current first-grader reaches college age , parents would need to set aside $ 773.94 a month -- for 12 years . they can cut this to $ 691.09 a month if the investing keeps up through college . and they can further reduce the monthly amount if they start saving earlier -- when mother and child come home from the hospital . plugging a cheaper college into the formulas still does n't generate an installment 0 most people can live with . using a recent average private-school cost of about $ 12,500 a year , t. rowe price 's planner prescribes $ 450 monthly if the plan begins when the child is six . since the formula assumes an 8 % before-tax return in a mutual fund , there would also be $ 16,500 in taxes 0 to pay over the 12 years . not everyone is so pessimistic . `` people are basically peddling a lot of fear , '' says arthur hauptman , a consultant to the american council on education in washington . he takes issue with projections that do n't factor in students ' own contribution , which reduces most parents ' burden substantially . still , he says 0 , `` it 's no bad thing '' if all the marketing prods people into putting aside a little more . `` the situation 0 you want to avoid is having somebody not save anything and hope 0 they 'll be able to do it out of current income , '' he says . `` that 's crazy . '' his advice : do n't panic . parents , he says 0 , should aim at whatever regular investment sum they can afford . half the amount that the investment tables suggest might be a good goal , he adds 0 . that way , parents will reduce borrowings and outlays from current income when the time comes 0 to pay tuition . mr. hauptman reckons that the best investment choice is mutual funds because they are managed and over time have nearly kept up with the broad stock averages . he favors either an all-stock fund or a balanced fund that mixes both stocks and bonds . in their anxiety , however , parents and other student benefactors are flocking to new schemes . they have laid out about $ 1 billion for so-called baccalaureate zero-coupon municipal bonds -- so far offered by connecticut , illinois , virginia and eight other states . and they have bought about $ 500 million in prepaid-tuition plans , offered in michigan , florida and wyoming . the prepaid plans take payment today -- usually at current tuitions or at a slight discount -- for a promise that tuition will be covered tomorrow . the baccalaureate bonds -- tax-free , offered in small denominations and usually containing a provision that they wo n't be called before maturity -- seem to be tailor-made for college savers . like other zeros , they pay all their interest at maturity , meaning that buyers can time things so that their bonds pay off just when junior graduates from high school . their compounding effect is also alluring . in june , virginia sold bonds for $ 268.98 that will pay $ 1,000 in 2009 . but richard anderson , head of the forum for college financing alternatives , at columbia university , a research group partly financed by the federal government , says 0 zeros are particularly ill-suited . their price falls further than that of other bonds when inflation and interest rates kick up . that wo n't matter if they are held to maturity , but if , for any reason , the parents need to sell them before then , there could be a severe loss of principal . had zeros been available in 1972 and had parents bought a face amount equal to four years ' tuition at the time , aiming for their children 's 1988 enrollment , they would have been left with only enough to pay for two years , mr. anderson figures 0 . most other bonds , however , would probably not have fared much better . the prepaid plans may be a good bet , provided 0 the guarantee of future tuition is secure . issuing states generally limit the guarantees to in-state institutions , however , and buyers get refunds without much interest if the children do n't attend the specified schools . two private groups are seeking securities and exchange commission approval for plans that could be more broadly transferable . mr. anderson wants the prestige colleges to sponsor such a plan . the issue here may be the soundness of the guarantee . prepayments , much like mutual-fund purchases , are pooled for investment . sponsors are naturally counting on their ability to keep ahead of tuition inflation with investment returns . but buyers are essentially betting on a start-up investment fund with no track record -- and some have been encouraged to borrow to do so . one problem is that the internal revenue service has decided that the investment earnings and gains of the sponsors ' funds are taxable . the colleges , as educational institutions , had hoped 0 that would n't be the case . based on historical rates of return , mr. anderson reckons 0 a 100 % stock portfolio , indexed to the market , would have kept up with tuition and taxes in the 20th century . but sponsors might not pick the stocks that will match the market . and they 're leaning more toward fixed income , whose returns after tax have trailed tuition increases . `` i 'm not sure 0 they 're going to make it work , '' says mr. anderson . what happens if the sponsors do n't have the cash 0 to pay the tuitions ? florida and wyoming have backed up their guarantees with the full faith and credit of the state governments , meaning that taxpayers will pick up any slack . not so michigan . its plan is set up as an independent agency . the state says 0 there 's no worry -- investment returns , combined with fees and the gains from unused plans , will provide all the cash 0 it needs . mr. putka covers education from the wall street journal 's boston bureau . if you start saving for your child 's eduction on jan. 1 , 1990 , here 's the monthly sum 0 you will need to invest to pay for four years at yale , notre dame and university of minnesota . figures assume a 7 % annual rise in tuition , fees , room and board and an 8 % annual investment return . note : these figures are only for mandatory charges and do n't include books , transportation etc . \* for in-state students source : painewebber inc .