the days may be numbered for animated shows featuring alf , the karate kid and the chipmunks . nbc , a leader in morning , prime-time and late night programs but an also-ran on saturday mornings , when children rule the tv set , is contemplating getting out of the cartoon business . instead , network officials say 0 , it may `` counterprogram '' with shows for an audience that is virtually ignored in that time period : adults . `` there is talk of some revamping and we 're certainly heading in the direction of less and less animation , '' said joseph s. cicero , vice president of finance and administration for national broadcasting co. , a unit of general electric co . mr. cicero said that nbc entertainment president brandon tartikoff , who declined to be interviewed , is `` looking at options now and may put some things into the schedule by mid-season . '' he declined to elaborate . nbc 's options could range from news-oriented programming to sports shows , although the network declined to comment . one major nbc affiliate , kcra in sacramento , plans to cancel the nbc saturday morning line-up as of january and replace it with a local newscast . the one-hour program will be repeated with updates throughout saturday mornings . `` we feel 0 there is an opportunity for an audience that is not being served by any network , so we want to take the lead , '' says kcra 's general manager , john kueneke . `` we do n't need cartoons anymore . they only accounted for 5 % , at best , of the station 's total revenues . '' an nbc spokesman says 0 the network will `` closely monitor '' the sacramento situation , and says 0 it is the only station 0 to defect . spokesmen for the television networks of cbs inc. and capital cities\/abc inc. , say 0 there are no plans to alter the children 's line-up on saturday mornings . the youthful audience for saturday programming is no longer dependent on the networks . there has been a surge in syndicated children 's shows to independent stations , as well as competition from videocassettes for kids and from cable outlets such as nickelodeon and the disney channel . at the same time , there appears to be a market for news-oriented programming ; turner broadcasting system inc. 's cable news network has its highest ratings , outside of prime time , on saturday mornings . nbc has on previous occasions considered replacing cartoons with a saturday version of `` today , '' which is produced by nbc news . the network 's own production company , nbc productions , supplies a half-hour family-oriented show titled `` saved by the bell . '' nbc productions or nbc news could supply the network with other saturday morning shows , a move that would control costs . animated shows , which are made by outside production companies , cost the network about $ 300,000 per episode .