when michael s. perry took the podium at a recent cosmetics industry event , more than 500 executives packing the room snapped to attention . mr. perry , who runs unilever group 's world-wide personal-care business , paused to scan the crowd . `` i see 0 we have about half the audience working for us , '' he said , tongue in cheek . `` the other half , we may have before long . '' members of the audience gasped or laughed nervously ; their industry has been unsettled recently by acquisitions . first unilever , the anglo-dutch packaged-goods giant , spent $ 2 billion to acquire brands such as faberge and elizabeth arden . it now holds the no. 3 position at u.s. department-store cosmetic counters . then procter & gamble co. agreed to buy noxell corp. for $ 1.3 billion . that acquisition , 0 to be completed by year end , will include the cover girl and clarion makeup lines , making p&g the top marketer of cosmetics in mass-market outlets . it 's not so much the idea of acquisitions that has agitated the cosmetics industry as the companies doing the acquiring : p&g and unilever bring with them great experience with mundane products like soap and toilet paper , sparking disdain in the glitzy cosmetics trade ; but they also bring mammoth marketing clout , sparking fear . though it is far from certain that companies best known for selling promise margarine and tide detergent will succeed in cosmetics , there 's little doubt 0 they will shake up the industry . for now , both companies are keeping quiet about their specific plans . but industry watchers expect them to blend the methodical marketing strategies 0 they use for more mundane products with the more intuitive approach typical of cosmetics companies . likely changes include more emphasis on research , soaring advertising budgets and aggressive pricing . but some cosmetics-industry executives wonder whether techniques honed in packaged goods will translate to the cosmetics business . estee lauder inc. , revlon inc. and other cosmetics houses traditionally have considered themselves fashion enterprises whose product development is guided by the creative intuition of their executives . cosmetics companies roll out new makeup colors several times a year , and since most products can be easily copied by competitors , they 're loath to test them with consumers . `` just because upscale cosmetics look like packaged goods and smell like packaged goods , it does n't mean 0 they are packaged goods , '' says leonard lauder , chief executive of estee lauder . `` they 're really fashion items wrapped up in little jars . '' in contrast to the more artistic nature of traditional cosmetics houses , unilever and p&g are the habitats of organization men in gray-flannel suits . both companies are conservative marketers that rely on extensive market research . p&g , in particular , rarely rolls out a product nationally before extensive test-marketing . both can be extremely aggressive at pricing such products as soaps and diapers -- to the extent that some industry consultants predict 0 cents-off coupons for mascara could result from their entry into the field . p&g already has shown 0 it can meld some traditional packaged-goods techniques with the image-making of the cosmetics trade in the mass-market end of the business . consider oil of olay , which p&g acquired as part of richardson-vicks international in 1985 . the moisturizer , introduced in 1962 , had a dowdy image . `` oil of olay brought with it the baggage of being used basically by older women who had already aged , '' says david williams , a consultant with new england consulting group . p&g set out to reposition the brand by broadening the product line to include facial cleansers and moisturizers for sensitive skin . it also redesigned oil of olay 's packaging , stamping the traditional pink boxes with gold lines to create a more opulent look . moreover , p&g shifted its ad campaign from one targeting older women to one featuring a woman in her mid-30s vowing `` not to grow old gracefully . '' the company says 0 sales have soared . goliaths like unilever and p&g have enormous financial advantages over smaller rivals . next year , noxell plans to roll out a perfume called navy , says george l. bunting jr. , chairman of noxell . without p&g 's backing , noxell might not have been able to spend the estimated $ 5 million to $ 7 million needed to accomplish that without scrimping on its existing brands . packaged-goods companies `` will make it tougher for smaller people to remain competitive , '' mr. bunting says 0 . further consolidations in the industry could follow . rumors that unilever is interested in acquiring schering-plough corp. 's maybelline unit are widespread . unilever wo n't comment ; schering , however , denies 0 the brand is for sale . the presence of unilever and p&g is likely to increase the impact of advertising on cosmetics . while the two are among the world 's biggest advertisers , most makers of upscale cosmetics spend relatively little on national ads . instead , they focus on events in department stores and pour their promotional budgets into gifts that go along with purchases . estee lauder , for example , spends only an estimated 5 % of sales on advertising in the u.s. , and mr. lauder says 0 he has no plans to change his strategy . the most dramatic changes , however , probably will come in new-product development . nearly 70 % of cosmetics sales come through mass-distribution outlets such as drug stores and supermarkets , according to andrew shore , an analyst at shearson lehman hutton inc . that figure has been inching up for several years . as the trend continues , demand for mass-market items that are high quality but only mid-priced -- particularly skin-care products -- is expected to increase . this fall , for example , l'oreal group , ordinarily a high-end line , rolled out a drug-store line of skin-care products called plenitude , which retail for $ 5 to $ 15 . the packaged-goods marketers may try filling that gap with a spate of new products . unlike the old-line cosmetics houses , unilever and p&g both have enormous research and development bases 0 to draw on for new products . p&g , in fact , is noted for gaining market leadership by introducing products that offer a technical edge over the competition . sales of its tide detergent soared earlier this year , for example , after p&g introduced a version that includes a bleach safe for all colors and fabrics . that 's led industry executives to speculate that future product development will be driven more by technological innovation than by fashion whims -- especially among mass-market brands . `` there will be more emphasis on quality , '' says guy peyrelongue , chief executive of cosmair inc. , the u.s. licensee of l'oreal . `` you 'll see fewer gimmicks . '' but success for unilever and p&g is far from guaranteed , as shown by the many consumer-product companies that have tried and failed to master the quirky beauty business . in the 1970s , several pharmaceutical and packaged-goods companies , including colgate-palmolive co. , eli lilly & co. , pfizer inc. and schering-plough acquired cosmetics companies . industry consultants say 0 only schering-plough , which makes the mass-market maybelline , has maintained a meaningful business . colgate , which acquired helena rubenstein in 1973 , sold the brand seven years later after the brand languished . unilever already has experienced some disappointment . the mass-market aziza brand , which it acquired in 1987 along with chesebrough-pond 's inc. , has lost share , according to industry analysts . the ritzy world of department-store cosmetics retailing , where unilever is concentrating its efforts , may prove even more treacherous . in this niche , makeup colors change seasonally because they are linked to ready-to-wear fashions . because brand loyalty is weak and most cosmetics purchases are unplanned , careful training of store sales staffs by cosmetics companies is important . and cultivating a luxury image strong enough to persuade consumers to pay more than $ 15 for lipstick or eye makeup requires a subtle touch that packaged-goods companies have yet to demonstrate on their own .