albert engelken and robert thomson had never met , though for 38 years their lives had been intertwined in a way peculiar to the sports world . mr. engelken , now a transit-association executive in washington , d.c. , and mr. thomson , a paper-products salesman in montvale , n.j. , had n't even talked to each other . but one recent day , they became much closer . mr. engelken , a rabid baseball fan , pores over the sports pages to chart the exploits of `` my favorite and not-so-favorite teams and players . '' he often groans , he says 0 , at the `` clutter '' of sports stories about drugs , alcohol , gambling and some player 's lament `` about the miserly millions 0 he is offered to play the game . '' his morning paper , the washington post , even carries a sports column called `` jurisprudence '' that recounts the latest arrests and convictions of players and team managers . like many sports buffs , mr. engelken has turned cynic . but his is a story about a hero in an era of sports anti-heroes , and about what babe ruth , mr. engelken reminds us 0 , once called `` the only real game in the world . '' to mr. engelken , it is also a story `` about love , because i 'm blessed to have a wife who still thinks 0 her slightly eccentric husband 's 50th birthday deserves the ultimate present . '' to understand what mr. engelken means , one must go back to a sunny october afternoon in 1951 at new york 's polo grounds stadium , where , it can be argued , the most dramatic moment in baseball history was played out . it was the ninth inning of the third game of a three-game playoff between the brooklyn dodgers and the new york giants -lrb- the predecessor to the san francisco giants scheduled to play in tonight 's world series -rrb- . baseball fans throughout new york had sweated out a long summer with their teams , and now it had come to this : a battle between the two for the national league pennant -- down to the last inning of the last game , no less . some 34,320 fans jammed the stands , and shouted at the top of their lungs . mr. engelken was doing the same across the hudson river in new jersey , where , with his nose pressed against the front window of the passaic-clifton national bank , he watched the duel on a television set 0 the bank set up for the event . the playoff series had riveted the 12-year-old giants fan . `` the giants struck first , winning the opener , 3-1 , on a two-run homer off dodger right-hander ralph branca , '' mr. engelken recalls with precision today . `` the giants got swamped in the second game , 100 , and trailed 4-1 going into the bottom of the ninth of the third and deciding game . the giants scored once and had runners on second -lcb- whitey lockman -rcb- and third -lcb- clint hartung -rcb- as bobby thomson advanced to the plate . '' the rest , as they say , is history . mr. thomson , a tall , scottish-born , right-hand hitter , stepped into the batter 's box . `` thomson took a called strike , '' mr. engelken recounts . the tension mounted as ralph branca , again on the mound , stared down the batter . he wound up and let loose a fastball . the pitch sailed toward bobby thomson high and inside and then , with a crack of the bat , was sent rocketing back into the lower leftfield stands . `` giants fans went into euphoria , '' says mr. engelken . and bobby thomson was made a legend . the same bobby thomson , it turns out , who sells those paper-goods today . there ca n't be an older baseball fan alive who does n't clearly remember that bobby thomson homer , who ca n't tell you where he was when he heard the famous russ hodges radio broadcast -- the one that concluded with mr. hodges shouting , over and over , `` the giants win the pennant , the giants win the pennant ! '' mr. engelken and mr. thomson drifted in different directions in the subsequent years , and the polo grounds , located under coogan 's bluff in upper manhattan , was replaced by a public-housing project . mr. thomson played outfield and third base until 1960 , posting a lifetime .270 batting average and chalking up 264 home runs before retiring and going into paper-goods sales . mr. engelken moved south to washington , but he took with him enduring memories of the homer of 1951 . when his wife , betsy , came down the aisle on their wedding day in 1966 , mr. engelken -- no slouch on the romantic front -- gave her the ultimate compliment : `` you look prettier than bobby thomson 's home run . '' the couple 's first dog , homer , was named after the great event , though unwitting friends assumed 0 he was the namesake of the poet . and when mr. engelken 's sister , martha , who was born two days before the home run , reached her 25th birthday , mr. engelken wrote his sports hero to tell him of the coincidence of events . mr. thomson sent off a card to martha : `` it does n't seem like 25 years since i hit that home run to celebrate your birth , '' it read . martha was pleased , but nowhere near as much as mr. engelken . the family license plate reads `` eng 23 , '' the first three letters of the family name and -- no surprise here -- bobby thomson 's uniform number . and on mr. engelken 's 40th birthday , his wife bought a book detailing the big homer and sent it off to mr. thomson to be autographed . `` what could have been better ? '' asks mr. engelken . betsy engelken asked the same question earlier this year , when her husband was about to turn 50 . she had an idea . on her husband 's 50th birthday -lrb- after an auspicious 23 years of marriage , it should be noted -rrb- , betsy , al and their college-bound son set out for new york to visit fordham university . mrs. engelken had scheduled a stop on the new jersey turnpike to , she told her husband , pick up some papers for a neighbor . the papers would be handed over at a bank of telephone booths just off exit 10 . `` it sounded like something out of ian fleming , '' mr. engelken recalls . at the appointed exit , the family pulled over , and mrs. engelken went to get her papers . mr. engelken turned off the motor and rolled down the window . in a matter of minutes , she was back , with a tall , silver-haired man in tow . she crouched down by the car window and addressed her husband with her favorite nickname : `` bertie , '' she said , `` happy 50th birthday . this is bobby thomson . '' `` and there he was , '' recalls mr. engelken . `` the hero of my youth , the one person in history 0 i 'd most like to meet . keep your thomas jeffersons , or st. augustines or michelangelos ; i 'd take baseball 's flying scot without hesitation . '' they talked of the home run . `` i thought 0 it was in the upper deck , '' said bobby thomson , now 66 years old . they talked of the aftermath . `` i never thought 0 it would become so momentous , '' bobby remarked . mr. engelken , says 0 his wife , `` was overwhelmed by the whole thing . it was worth it , just for the look on albert 's face . '' the two men spent an hour at exit 10 , rehashing the event , `` fulfilling the lifelong dream of a young boy now turned 50 , '' mr. engelken says . his hero signed photographs of the homer and diplomatically called ralph branca `` a very fine pitcher . '' and when mr. engelken asked him why he took time off from work for somebody 0 he did n't even know , bobby thomson replied : `` you know , albert , 0 if you have the chance in life to make somebody this happy , you have an obligation to do it . '' in an interview , mr. thomson , who is married and has three grown children , says 0 he has few ties to baseball these days , other than playing old-timers games now and again . but his fans , to his constant amazement , never let him forget the famous four-bagger . his mail regularly recalls `` my one event , '' and has been growing in recent years . in response to the letters , mr. thomson usually sends an autographed photo with a polite note , and rarely arranges a rendezvous . but when betsy engelken wrote him , saying 0 she could stop near his new jersey home , it seemed different . `` what a good feeling it would be for me to do that , '' he says 0 he thought . when the engelken family got back from its trip up north , mr. engelken wrote it all down , just to make sure 0 no detail was missed . `` on the way home , '' his notes recall , `` it took concentrated effort to keep that car pointed south . my mind was miles north at a place called coogan 's bluff , where a real sports hero had captured the imagination of a kid who never fully grew up and is all the richer for it . `` take heart , sports fans , '' he wrote . `` real heroes exist . you might not find one in the ` jurisprudence ' column . but who knows ? you might meet up with him at that bank of telephone booths just off exit 10 of the new jersey turnpike .