hopes of simplifying the corporate minimum tax before 1990 are weakening . the method of calculating the 20 % tax , paid if it exceeds tax figured the regular way , is due for a change in 1990 , thanks to 1986 's tax act . but most experts agree that the concept that is to be introduced drags in great complexity ; they have been trying to head it off this year . ways and means chairman rostenkowski backed a simplification plan in the pending house tax bill , but the plan turns out to be a big revenue loser . now the senate 's stripped-down bill omits any proposal to deal with the corporate tax . proponents of simplification fear that the chances of getting it into the final bill are waning . `` we hear 0 it has low priority on the house side , '' says samuel starr of coopers & lybrand , cpas . if the law is n't changed , he says 0 , `` we are left staring at rules that are almost impossible 0 to implement , because there are so many complex depreciation calculations 0 to do . '' but congress still could resolve the issue with other legislation this year or next , starr adds 0 . hugo 's ravages may be offset by immediate claims for tax refunds . this law aids hurricane-wracked locales named by the president as disaster areas , as well as regions so designated after other 1989 disasters . it lets victims elect to deduct casualty losses on either 1989 or amended 1988 returns , whichever offers the larger tax benefit ; they have until april 16 to choose . amending a 1988 return to claim a refund brings cash faster ; but for personal losses , there are other factors 0 to consider , notes 0 publisher prentice hall . a loss -- after insurance recoveries -- is deductible only to the extent that it exceeds $ 100 and that the year 's total losses exceed 10 % of adjusted gross income ; victims may pick the year when income is lower and deductions higher . in filing an original -lrb- not amended -rrb- return , a couple should consider whether damaged property is owned jointly or separately and whether one spouse has larger income ; that may determine whether they should file jointly or separately . the irs delays several deadlines for hugo 's victims . returns for 1988 from people with six-month filing extensions were due monday , but the irs says 0 people in the disaster areas wo n't be penalized for late filing if their returns are marked `` hugo '' and postmarked by jan. 16 . interest will be imposed on unpaid taxes , but late-payment penalties on the returns will be waived if the balance due and paid is 10 % or less of the liability . irs notice 89-136 describes this and other deadline relief for hugo 's victims . among the provisions : fiscal-year taxpayers with returns due last monday wo n't be penalized if they file -- or request an extension -- and pay tax due by nov. 15 . excise-tax returns due by oct. 31 or nov. 30 may be delayed to jan. 16 . extensions ca n't be granted for filing employment-tax returns due oct. 31 or for depositing withheld taxes , but late penalties will be abated for deposits made by nov. 15 . the notice also grants relief for certain estate-tax returns . one-day jaunts in a chartered boat were perks for permanent staffers of american business service corp. , a costa mesa , calif. , supplier of temporary workers . the irs denied cost deductions because few of the temps got to go aboard . but the tax court said 0 the limitations were reasonable and realistic and allowed the deductions . used-car buyers who try to avoid sales tax by understating prices paid in private deals are the targets of a new york drive . estimating that the state may lose $ 15 million a year , officials announced the filing of 15 criminal actions and `` hundreds '' of civil penalties . when an ira owner dies , the trustee of the individual retirement account must file forms 5498 reporting market values relating to the decedent and each beneficiary , with copies to the executor and beneficiaries . irs revenue procedure 89-52 describes the reporting requirements . bigger than a breadbox was this cash hoarder 's reputation for honesty . people often cite frugality and distrust of banks to justify cash caches to the irs . gregory damonne brown of fremont , calif. , a hardworking , reclusive young bachelor , told that story to the tax court . but judges usually find 0 the real aim is to escape tax on hidden income ; and the irs said 0 brown must have had such income -- although it uncovered no source -- because he deposited $ 124,732 in a bank account in 1982-84 while reporting income of only $ 52,012 . brown 's story : the deposits came from savings kept in a tupperware breadbox ; he saved $ 47,000 in 1974-81 by living with family members and pinching pennies and $ 45,000 of secret gifts from his remorseful father , who had abandoned the family in 1955 . brown had no proof ; but testimony of his mother and stepmother about his father and of an ex-employer about his honesty and habits satisfied a judge that brown was truthful and his tale of gifts was possible . the irs offered no evidence of hidden sources of taxable income , so judge shields rejected its claims . briefs : asked how he made charitable gifts of $ 26,350 out of reported two-year income of $ 46,892 , thomas h. mcfall of bryan , texas , told the tax court 0 he had understated his income . the court rejected his incredible claims , denied his deductions , and imposed a negligence penalty ... . rep. schaefer -lrb- r. , colo. -rrb- entered a bill 0 to exempt from tax rewards for tips leading to the arrest of violent criminals .