the transportation department , responding to pressure from safety advocates , took further steps 0 to impose on light trucks and vans the safety requirements used for automobiles . the department proposed requiring stronger roofs for light trucks and minivans , beginning with 1992 models . it also issued a final rule requiring auto makers to equip light trucks and minivans with lap-shoulder belts for rear seats beginning in the 1992 model year . such belts already are required for the vehicles ' front seats . `` today 's action , '' transportation secretary samuel skinner said , `` represents another milestone in the ongoing program 0 to promote vehicle occupant safety in light trucks and minivans through its extension of passenger car standards . '' in september , the department had said 0 it will require trucks and minivans to be equipped with the same front-seat headrests that have long been required on passenger cars . the big three auto makers said 0 the rule changes were n't surprising because bush administration officials have long said 0 they planned to impose car safety standards on light trucks and vans . safety advocates , including some members of congress , have been urging the department for years to extend car-safety requirements to light trucks and vans , which now account for almost one-third of all vehicle sales in the u.s. . they say that many vehicles classed as commercial light trucks actually carry more people than cargo and therefore should have the same safety features as cars . they did n't have much luck during the reagan administration . `` but now , there seems to be a fairly systematic effort to address the problem , '' said chuck hurley , vice president of communications for the insurance institute for highway safety . `` we 're in a very different regulatory environment . '' sen. john danforth -lrb- r. , mo . -rrb- praised the department 's actions , noting that rollover crashes account for almost half of all light-truck deaths . `` we could prevent many of these fatalities with minimum roof-crush standards , '' he said . sen. danforth and others also want the department to require additional safety equipment in light trucks and minivans , including air bags or automatic seat belts in front seats and improved side-crash protection . the department 's roof-crush proposal would apply to vehicles weighing 10,000 pounds or less . the roofs would be required to withstand a force of 1.5 times the unloaded weight of the vehicle . during the test , the roof could n't be depressed more than five inches . in detroit , a chrysler corp. official said 0 the company currently has no rear-seat lap and shoulder belts in its light trucks , but plans to begin phasing them in by the end of the 1990 model year . he said 0 chrysler fully expects to have them installed across its light-truck line by the sept. 1 , 1991 , deadline . chrysler said 0 its trucks and vans already meet the roof-crush resistance standard for cars . john leinonen , executive engineer of ford motor co. 's auto-safety office , said 0 ford trucks have met car standards for roof-crush resistance since 1982 . ford began installing the rear-seat belts in trucks with its f-series crew cab pickups in the 1989 model year . the new explorer sport-utility vehicle , set for introduction next spring , will also have the rear-seat belts . mr. leinonen said 0 he expects ford to meet the deadline easily .