four years ago , pittsburgh was designated the most-livable u.s. city by rand mcnally 's places rated almanac , and the honor did wonders to improve pittsburgh 's soot-stained image . `` people asked , is it really true ? '' says maury kelley , vice president , marketing services , for beecham products usa , a maker of health and personal-care products that used the ranking in its recruiting brochure . yuba city , calif. , meanwhile , ranked dead last among 329 metro areas . unamused , residents burned rand mcnally books and wore t-shirts that said : `` kiss my atlas . '' the almanac will be making new friends and enemies on oct. 27 , when an updated version will be released . pittsburgh figures 0 it will be dethroned but plans to accept its ouster graciously . the city 's office of promotion plans media events 0 to welcome its successor . `` we 're encouraging a graceful transition , '' says mary kay poppenberg , the organization 's president . `` our attitude is that -lrb- the ranking -rrb- is like miss america . once you 're miss america , you 're always miss america . '' tell that to atlanta , which pittsburgh replaced as the most-livable city in 1985 . many atlantans thought 0 pittsburgh was an unworthy heir . a columnist in the atlanta journal and constitution wrote : `` who did the research for this report ? two guys from gary , ind. ? '' not so . co-authors david savageau and richard boyer , live in gloucester , mass. , and asheville , n.c. , respectively . `` atlanta , '' mr. savageau sniffs , `` has unrealistic pretensions to world-class status . '' the new edition lists the top 10 metropolitan areas as anaheim-santa ana , calif. ; boston ; louisville , ky. ; nassau-suffolk , n.y. ; new york ; pittsburgh ; san diego ; san francisco ; seattle ; and washington . mr. savageau says 0 earthquake or not , san francisco makes the list . but attention also rivets on who finishes last , and pine bluff , ark. -- which finished third to last in 1981 and second to last in 1985 -- is certainly in the running . `` i hate to dignify the publication by commenting on the obscene rating , '' mayor carolyn robinson says , adding that cities have no way 0 to rebut the book . `` it 's like fighting your way out of a fog . you do n't know which way to punch .