in the hard-hit marina neighborhood , life after the earthquake is often all too real , but sometimes surreal . some scenes : -- saturday morning , a resident was given 15 minutes to scurry into a sagging building and reclaim what she could of her life 's possessions . saturday night she dined in an emergency shelter on salmon steaks prepared by chefs from one of the city 's four-star restaurants . -- mayor art agnos stands in the glare of television lights trying to explain for the 20th time why the city is severely restricting access to badly damaged structures . a couple in fashionable spandex warm-up suits jogs by , headphones jauntily in place , weaving their way along a street of fractured and fallen houses . at a nearby corner , they swerve perilously close to a listing apartment house , oblivious to any danger . a policeman shakes his head in amazement as he steers them away . -- a young woman who has been out of town shows up at the marina middle school to learn that her apartment is on the condemned list . she is told 0 she ca n't enter unless she is accompanied by an inspector . she bursts into tears and walks away . nearby , five temporary residents of the school shelter sit on stools , having their necks and backs kneaded by volunteer masseuses . the marina rescue center offered a very san franciscan response to the disaster . in addition to free massages , there was free counseling , phone calls and a free shuttle bus to a health club , which offered up its showers , saunas and hot tubs . the cafeteria offered donated croissants and brie for breakfast , and for dinner , pasta salad and chocolate mousse torts along with the salmon . `` this has been a 15-pound earthquake for me , '' said resident joan o'shea , who works in an acupuncturist 's office . she and some friends are considering offering earthquake victims free yoga classes and `` aroma therapy '' -- massages with scented oils . she finds the response of marina residents -- primarily yuppies and elderly people -- to the devastation of their homes `` incredible . people have been very respectful of each other . i do n't know if this would have happened somewhere else . '' out on the streets , some residents of badly damaged buildings were allowed a 15-minute scavenger hunt through their possessions . `` it 's so weird to have to decide what 's really important to you , '' said barbara may . she went first for personal mementos . in post-earthquake parlance , her building is a `` red . '' after being inspected , buildings with substantial damage were color-coded . green allowed residents to re-enter ; yellow allowed limited access ; red allowed residents one last entry to gather everything 0 they could within 15 minutes . reds and yellows went about their business with a kind of measured grimness . some frantically dumped belongings into pillowcases , others threw goods out windows . it did n't help that on saturday , after three days of sunshine , it rained . `` the guys are going for their skis , their stereos , their personal computers , '' said frank fitzgerald , who helped others empty their apartments . `` the women wanted photo albums , a certain brooch , kind of sentimental things . '' he showed an unbroken , still-ticking pocket watch that he retrieved for one woman . it belonged to her grandfather . some residents defied orders and returned to `` red '' buildings to retrieve goods . one building was upgraded to red status while people were taking things out , and a resident who was n't allowed to go back inside called up the stairs to his girlfriend , telling her to keep sending things down to the lobby . a policewoman had to be called in to make her leave ; the policewoman helped carry out one last load . enforcement of restricted-entry rules was sporadic , residents said 0 . one man trying to remove his car was told by officials to get out of his garage . when he sneaked back later to try again , a different policeman offered to help him get the car out . the marina also has become the focal point of city efforts to reunite residents with any pets that may have fled or become lost during the earthquake . on lampposts along fillmore street , a major marina artery , posters were offering a $ 100 reward for a cat lost during the quake . the san francisco society for the prevention of cruelty to animals also has been providing medical care , food , water and foster homes for quake-displaced animals . the spca says 0 it has received more than 100 requests for foster homes on behalf of dogs and cats , though some people have sought temporary homes for birds and fish . for example , one parakeet owner returning home found that her apartment , like many others in the marina , did n't have heat . `` she can stay there with no heat , but for a parakeet , that can be deadly , '' says daralee konowitch , animalcare services manager for the spca . a warm foster home has been found .