a federal judge ruled that imelda marcos was n't brought to the u.s. against her will and that marital privileges , which protect spouses from incriminating each other , do n't apply in her case . as a result , judge john f. keenan of new york ordered mrs. marcos to turn over to the court all pleadings and documents 0 she may have filed in foreign countries in opposition to u.s. requests for evidence . mrs. marcos had claimed that she did n't have to turn over the documents because she was brought here involuntarily and because providing the materials would violate her marital privilege . in 1988 , a year and a half after mrs. marcos and her late husband , ferdinand marcos , the ousted president of the philippines , fled the philippines for hawaii , they were charged with racketeering , conspiracy , obstruction of justice and mail fraud in a scheme in which they allegedly embezzled more than $ 100 million from their homeland . much of the money was fraudulently concealed through purchases of prime manhattan real estate , federal prosecutors have charged 0 . mrs. marcos 's trial is expected to begin in march . u.s. law requires criminal defendants to turn over foreign documents such as those sought in the marcos case . the law is meant to overcome delays caused by defendants ' use of foreign procedures to block u.s. requests for records , judge keenan said 0 in his opinion . for instance , the documents could involve foreign business dealings or bank accounts . the u.s. has charged that the marcoses ' alleged crimes involved bank accounts in the philippines , hong kong , the u.s. and other countries . on the allegation of kidnapping , judge keenan wrote , `` the suggestion that mrs. marcos was brought to this country against her will is unsupported by affidavit or affirmation . '' the judge also said 0 the two marital testimonial privileges cited by mrs. marcos do n't apply . the first one permits a witness to refuse to testify against her spouse . but judge keenan said 0 that privilege 's purpose is `` fostering harmony in marriage . '' because mr. marcos died sept. 28 , the privilege can no longer apply , the judge said 0 . the second marital privilege cited by mrs. marcos protects confidential communications between spouses . but judge keenan said 0 that privilege is meant to protect private utterances -- not litigation papers filed with foreign governments , as mrs. marcos 's attorneys maintained . though judge keenan threw out most of mrs. marcos 's objections , he agreed with one of her concerns : that turning over the foreign documents could violate the defendant 's constitutional right against self-incrimination . as a result , he said 0 he will examine the marcos documents sought by the prosecutors to determine whether turning over the filings is self-incrimination . judge keenan also directed the prosecutors to show that mrs. marcos 's fifth amendment right against self-incrimination wo n't be violated . mrs. marcos 's attorney in new york , sandor frankel , declined to comment on the ruling . mrs. marcos has n't admitted that she filed any documents such as those sought by the government . charles labella , the assistant u.s. attorney prosecuting the marcos case , did n't return phone calls seeking comment . u.s. . and british law firms announce rare joint venture in tokyo . sidley & austin , a leading chicago-based law firm , and ashurst morris crisp , a midsized london firm of solicitors , are scheduled today to announce plans to open a joint office in tokyo . the firms will be registered under japanese law as foreign legal consultants and their practice with japanese clients will be limited to advising them on matters of foreign law . the office may also be able to advise foreign and multinational clients on international law and general matters . the office will provide `` one-stop shopping '' for japanese financial institutions and other clients seeking advice on access to the world capital markets , according to a. bruce schimberg , sidley 's senior banking specialist , who will move to tokyo from chicago to open the office next year . the sidley-ashurst venture will also be staffed by another sidley partner specializing in corporate law , a partner from ashurst concentrating on acquisitions and a japanese attorney . the office will tap the resources of sidley 's 700 lawyers in the u.s. , london and singapore as well as the 400 ashurst staff members in london and brussels . ashurst is new to the far east . sidley will maintain its association with the hashidate law office in tokyo . the united auto workers said 0 it will seek a rehearing of a u.s. appellate court ruling against the union 's claim that the state of michigan engages in wage-discrimination against female employees . a three-judge panel of the court in cincinnati made the ruling saturday . the uaw is seeking a hearing by the full 14-judge panel . the union sued the state in november 1985 , alleging that it intentionally segregated job classifications by sex and paid employees in predominantly female jobs less than males in comparable jobs . the uaw also charged that the state applied its own standards for determining pay in a discriminatory manner . in november 1987 , a district court judge in detroit ruled against the uaw . the union is the bargaining representative for more than 20,000 michigan state employees . new jersey merger : one of the largest law firms in central new jersey has been created through the merger of norris , mclaughlin & marcus , a 41-lawyer firm , and manger , kalison , mcbride & webb , a health-care specialty law firm with 14 lawyers . norris mclaughlin is a general-practice firm that has expanded recently into such specialties as banking , labor and environmental work . the merged firm will carry norris mclaughlin 's name . drug wars : a texas legislator proposes color-coding drivers ' licenses of some drug offenders . the bill would authorize courts to order the licenses as a condition of probation . state senator j.e. `` buster '' brown , a republican who is running for texas attorney general , introduced the bill . he said 0 an altered license would be an `` embarrassment '' to teenagers and young adults and would act as a deterrant to drug use . richard avena , executive director of the texas civil liberties union , called the proposal `` political gimmickry , '' and said 0 it fails to recognize the drug problem as a health issue .