confidence in the pound is widely expected to take another sharp dive if trade figures for september , due for release tomorrow , fail to show a substantial improvement from july and august 's near-record deficits . chancellor of the exchequer nigel lawson 's restated commitment to a firm monetary policy has helped to prevent a freefall in sterling over the past week . but analysts reckon 0 underlying support for sterling has been eroded by the chancellor 's failure to announce any new policy measures in his mansion house speech last thursday . this has increased the risk of the government being forced to increase base rates to 16 % from their current 15 % level to defend the pound , economists and foreign exchange market analysts say 0 . `` the risks for sterling of a bad trade figure are very heavily on the down side , '' said chris dillow , senior u.k. economist at nomura research institute . `` if there is another bad trade number , there could be an awful lot of pressure , '' noted simon briscoe , u.k. economist for midland montagu , a unit of midland bank plc . forecasts for the trade figures range widely , but few economists expect the data to show a very marked improvement from the # 2 billion -lrb- $ 3.2 billion -rrb- deficit in the current account reported for august . the august deficit and the # 2.2 billion gap registered in july are topped only by the # 2.3 billion deficit of october 1988 . sanjay joshi , european economist at baring brothers & co. , said 0 there is no sign that britain 's manufacturing industry is transforming itself to boost exports . at the same time , he remains fairly pessimistic about the outlook for imports , given continued high consumer and capital goods inflows . he reckons 0 the current account deficit will narrow to only # 1.8 billion in september . however , mr. dillow said 0 he believes that a reduction in raw material stockbuilding by industry could lead to a sharp drop in imports . combined with at least some rebound in exports after august 's unexpected decline , the deficit could narrow to as little as # 1.3 billion . mr. briscoe , who also forecasts a # 1.3 billion current account gap , warns that even if the trade figures are bullish for sterling , the currency wo n't advance much because investors will want to see further evidence of the turnaround before adjusting positions . nevertheless , he noted 0 , `` no one will want to go into the trade figures without a flat position '' in the pound . meanwhile , overall evidence on the economy remains fairly clouded . in his mansion house speech , mr. lawson warned that a further slowdown can be expected as the impact of the last rise in interest rates earlier this month takes effect . u.k. base rates are at their highest level in eight years . but consumer expenditure data released friday do n't suggest that the u.k. economy is slowing that quickly . the figures show that spending rose 0.1 % in the third quarter from the second quarter and was up 3.8 % from a year ago . this compares with a 1.6 % rise in the second from the first quarter and a 5.4 % increase from the second quarter of 1988 . mr. dillow said 0 the data show 0 the economy `` is still quite strong , '' but suggestions that much of the spending went on services rather than consumer goods should reduce fears of more import rises . certainly , the chancellor has made it clear that he is prepared to increase interest rates again if necessary to both ensure that a substantial slowdown does take place and that sterling does n't decline further . thursday , he reminded his audience that the government `` can not allow the necessary rigor of monetary policy to be undermined by exchange rate weakness . '' analysts agree 0 there is little holding sterling firm at the moment other than mr. lawson 's promise that rates will be pushed higher if necessary . and , they warn 0 , any further drop in the government 's popularity could swiftly make this promise sound hollow . sterling was already showing some signs of a lack of confidence in mr. lawson 's promise friday . in european trading it declined to $ 1.5890 and 2.9495 marks from $ 1.5940 and 2.9429 marks late thursday . economists suggested that if the pound falls much below 2.90 marks , the government will be forced to increase rates to 16 % , both to halt any further decline and ensure that the balance of monetary policy remains unchanged . friday 's market activity the dollar posted gains in quiet trading as concerns about equities abated . foreign exchange dealers said that the currency market has begun to distance itself from the volatile stock exchange , which has preoccupied the market since oct. 13 , when the dow jones industrial average plunged more than 190 points . currency analysts predict that in the coming week the foreign exchange market will shift its focus back to economic fundamentals , keeping a close eye out for any signs of monetary easing by u.s. federal reserve . late in the new york trading day , the dollar was quoted at 1.8578 marks , up from 1.8470 marks late thursday in new york . the u.s. currency was also changing hands at 142.43 yen , up from 141.70 yen in new york late thursday . in tokyo on monday , the u.s. currency opened for trading at 141.95 yen , up from friday 's tokyo close of 141.35 yen . on the commodity exchange in new york , gold for current delivery settled at $ 367.30 an ounce , up 20 cents . estimated volume was a light 2.4 million ounces . in early trading in hong kong monday , gold was quoted at $ 366.50 an ounce .