the house aviation subcommittee approved a bill that would give the transportation secretary authority to review and approve leveraged buy-outs of major u.s. airlines . the collapsed plan to acquire ual corp. , parent of united airlines , spurred quick action on the legislation , introduced wednesday and approved by the subcommittee on a voice vote yesterday . the bill is expected to be taken up by the public works and transportation committee tomorrow , and a floor vote by next week will be urged . the measure drew criticism from the bush administration and a parting shot from financier donald trump , who yesterday withdrew his takeover bid for amr corp. , the parent of american airlines . in a letter to subcommittee chairman james oberstar -lrb- d. , minn. -rrb- , mr. trump criticized the bill as an explicit effort to thwart his bid for amr , and said 0 it contributed to the collapse of the deal . elaine chao , deputy transportation secretary , also sent a letter 0 to express the administration 's opposition to the bill `` in its present form . '' rep. oberstar brushed off mr. trump 's allegations as an `` excuse for his own deal failing . '' he also said 0 the fact that the other letter had n't come from transportation secretary samuel skinner indicated 0 there is `` wiggle room '' in the administration 's position . mr. oberstar and other committee members repeatedly stressed that the legislation was n't a response to any particular market situation . but they cited the ual and amr examples as reasons to move quickly to enact this legislation . aides both in the house and senate said 0 the withdrawal of the trump bid for amr is n't likely to deflate efforts to push the legislation . `` it 's still on the fast track and we still want to do it , '' said one senate aide . the bill is aimed at addressing the concern that an airline might sacrifice costly safety measures to pay off the debt incurred in a leveraged buy-out . currently , the transportation secretary does n't have clearly established authority to block mergers , but can take the drastic step of revoking the operating certificate of any carrier 0 the official considers unfit . supporters of the legislation view the bill as an effort to add stability and certainty to the airline-acquisition process , and to preserve the safety and fitness of the industry . in general , the bill would give the transportation department a 30-day review period before 15 % or more of the voting stock of a major u.s. air carrier could be acquired . it also would require the acquiring party to notify the transportation secretary and to provide all information relevant to determining the intent of the acquisition . the bill would allow the secretary to reject a buy-out if sufficient information has n't been provided , or if the buy-out is likely to weaken the carrier financially , result in a substantial reduction in size of the airline through disposal of assets , or give control to a foreign interest . if more information is needed , the secretary would have authority to extend the review period 20 days . all the witnesses , both congressmen and industry experts , expressed support for the bill in order to prevent profiteers from cashing in on airline profits at the expense of safe , cost-effective service . but several committee members disapproved , some backing mr. trump 's claim that the threat of regulation caused the failure of the ual deal and the stock-market plunge . one of the major concerns expressed by the dissenters was that large airlines would be prohibited from divesting themselves of smaller entities and producing independent spin-off companies .