the bolstered cellular agreement between bellsouth corp. and lin broadcasting corp. carries heightened risks and could fail to fend off mccaw cellular communications inc. , the rival suitor for lin . moreover , the amended pact shows how mccaw 's persistence has pushed lin and bellsouth into a corner , forcing huge debt on the proposed new company . the debt , estimated at $ 4.7 billion , could mortgage the cellular company 's future earning power in order to placate some lin holders in the short term . the plan still calls for lin to combine its cellular telephone properties with bellsouth 's and to spin off its broadcasting operations . but under new terms of the agreement , announced friday , lin holders would receive a special cash dividend of $ 42 a share , representing a payout of about $ 2.23 billion , shortly before the proposed merger . lin said 0 it expects to borrow the money 0 to pay the dividend , but commitments from banks still have n't been obtained . under previous terms , holders would have received a dividend of only $ 20 a share . in addition , new york-based lin would exercise its right to buy out for $ 1.9 billion the 55 % equity interest of its partner , metromedia co. , in a new york cellular franchise . that money also would have to be borrowed . in effect , mccaw has forced lin 's hand by bidding $ 1.9 billion for the stake earlier this month . `` we 're taking on more debt than we would have liked to , '' acknowledged michael plouf , lin 's vice president and treasurer . although he expressed confidence that the proposed new company 's cash flow would be sufficient to cover interest payments on the debt , he estimated that the company would n't be profitable until 1994 or later . analyst estimate the value of the bellsouth proposal at about $ 115 to $ 125 a share . they value mccaw 's bid at $ 112 to $ 118 a share . the previous bellsouth pact was valued at about $ 98 to $ 110 a share . mccaw , the largest provider of cellular telephone service in the u.s. , already owns about 9.4 % of lin 's stock . in response to bellsouth 's amended pact , the kirkland , wash. , company extended its own offer to buy 22 million lin shares for $ 125 apiece , which would give mccaw a 50.3 % controlling interest . over the weekend , mccaw continued to call for an auction of lin . analysts said 0 they expect mccaw to escalate the bidding again . `` this game is n't over yet , '' said joel d. gross , a vice president at donaldson , lufkin & jenrette securities corp . `` at some point , it will become non-economical for one company . but i do n't think 0 we 're at that point yet . '' under its revised proposal , atlanta-based bellsouth would have a 50 % interest in the new cellular company and would be responsible for half of its debt . to sweeten the pact further -- and to ease concerns of institutional investors -- bellsouth added a provision designed to give extra protection to holders if the regional bell company ever decides to buy the rest of the new cellular company . the provision , described as `` back-end '' protection , would require bellsouth to pay a price equivalent to what an outside party might have to pay . mccaw 's bid also has a similar clause . only mccaw 's proposal requires the company to begin an auction process in june 1994 for remaining shares at third-party prices . to mollify shareholders concerned about the long-term value of the company under the bellsouth-lin agreement , bellsouth also agreed to pay as much as $ 10 a share , or $ 540 million , if , after five years , the trading value of the new cellular company is n't as high as the value that shareholders would have realized from the mccaw offer . `` we 're very pleased with the new deal . we did n't expect bellsouth to be so responsive , '' said frederick a. moran , president of moran asset management inc. , which holds 500,000 lin shares . bellsouth 's `` back-end protection was flawed previously . we think 0 this is a superior deal to mccaw 's . we 're surprised . we did n't think 0 a sleeping -lcb- bell -rcb- mentality would be willing to take on dilution . '' but kenneth leon , a telecommunications analyst with bear , stearns & co. , finds the bellsouth proposal still flawed because the company does n't have to wait five years to begin buying more lin shares . `` how many shares will be around in 1995 ? '' he asked . `` there 's nothing preventing bellsouth from buying up shares in the meanwhile . '' bellsouth 's revised proposal surprised many industry analysts , especially because of the company 's willingness to accept some dilution of future earnings . william o. mccoy , president of the company 's bellsouth enterprises inc. unit , said 0 the revised agreement with lin would dilute bellsouth earnings by about 9 % in both 1990 and 1991 and by significantly less thereafter . indeed , bellsouth 's cellular operations were among the first in the country 0 to become profitable . for 1988 , bellsouth earned $ 1.7 billion , or $ 3.51 a share , on revenue of $ 13.6 billion . analysts were predicting 1990 bellsouth earnings in the range of $ 3.90 a share , or $ 1.9 billion , but now those estimates are being scaled back . in composite trading friday on the new york stock exchange , bellsouth shares fell 87.5 cents to $ 52.125 . in national over-the-counter trading , lin shares soared $ 4.625 to closed at $ 112.625 , while mccaw fell $ 2.50 a share to $ 37.75 . the proposed bellsouth-lin cellular company , including the newly acquired metromedia stake , would give the new entity 55 million potential customers , including about 35 million in the nation 's top 10 markets . mr. leon of bear stearns speculated that mccaw , in an attempt to buy time , might consider filing an antitrust suit against bellsouth with the justice department and u.s. district judge harold greene , who oversees enforcement of the consent decree that broke up the bell system in 1984 . indeed , mccaw seemed to hint at that option in a brief statement . urging lin directors to conduct `` a fair auction on a level playing field , '' mccaw asked how well the public interest would be served `` with the bell operating companies controlling over 94 % of all cellular -lcb- potential customers -rcb- in the nation 's top 10 markets .