federal drug regulators , concerned over british reports that diabetics have died after shifting from animal to human-based insulin , say 0 they are considering a study 0 to see if similar deaths have occurred here . the united kingdom reports came from dr. patrick toseland , head of clinical chemistry at guy 's hospital in london . in a telephone interview friday , dr. toseland said 0 the number of sudden , unexplained deaths of diabetics 0 he had seen this year was 17 compared with just two in 1985 . at least six of the deaths occurred among relatively young diabetics who had switched from animal to human insulin within the past year , he said 0 . dr. solomon sobel , director of metabolism and endrocrine drug products for the u.s. food and drug administration , said 0 fda officials have discussed dr. toseland 's findings `` fairly intensively . '' while there have been no reports of similar sudden unexplained deaths among diabetics in the u.s. , dr. sobel said 0 the fda plans to examine dr. toseland 's evidence and is considering its own study here . dr. toseland , a toxicologist , said 0 he was preparing an article for a british forensic medical journal raising the possibility that the deaths may have occurred after human insulin blunted critical warning signs indicating hypoglycemia , or low blood sugar , which can kill diabetics . the usual warning signs of hypoglycemia include sweating , anxiety and cramps . with proper warning , diabetics can easily raise their blood sugar to safe levels by eating sugar or sugary food . `` the anecdotal data certainly shows that some of the people were not aware of the rapid onset of hypoglycemia , '' dr. toseland said . at the u.s. national institutes of health , dr. robert e. silverman , chief of the diabetes program branch , said 0 no evidence of unexpected deaths from hypoglycemia had shown up in a study of 1,500 diabetics that has been under way at nih for five years . however , he said 0 officials conducting the study had n't been looking for signs of problems related to hypoglycemia unawareness . `` we are now monitoring for it much more closely , '' he said . `` we do know 0 there are slight differences in the way 0 human and animal insulins drive down blood sugar , '' dr. sobel said . the human-based drug starts the blood sugar dropping sooner and drives it down faster , he said 0 . `` but we do n't believe 0 there is enough of a difference to be clinically significant , '' dr. sobel said . reports of dr. toseland 's findings in the british press have triggered widespread concern among diabetics there . both the british diabetic association and the committee on safety in medicines -- britain 's equivalent of the u.s. fda -- recently issued statements noting the lack of hard scientific evidence 0 to support dr. toseland 's findings . on friday , the american diabetes association issued a similar statement urging the six million u.s. diabetics not to overreact to the british report . `` a loss of the warning symptoms of hypoglycemia is a complex problem that is very unlikely to be due simply to the type of insulin used , '' the american association said . the fda already requires drug manufacturers to include warnings with insulin products that symptoms of hypoglycemia are less pronounced with human insulin than with animal-based products . eli lilly & co. , the indianapolis-based drug manufacturer , dominates the u.s. human insulin market with its product known as humulin . lilly is building plants 0 to make the insulin in indianapolis and fagershein , france . in its latest annual report , lilly said 0 humulin sales have shown `` excellent growth . '' lilly officials said 0 they had seen reports of hypoglycemic unawareness among some patients making the shift from animal to human insulin , but did n't know if the problem had caused any deaths . dr. leigh thompson , a lilly group vice president , said 0 the company 's clinical trials of both its animal and human-based insulins indicated no difference in the level of hypoglycemia between users of either product . dr. toseland said 0 most of the british diabetics who died had been taking a human-based insulin made by novo\/nordisk , a danish manufacturer . none of the diabetics were using lilly 's insulin .