the head of british satellite broadcasting ltd. said 0 he hopes to raise about # 450 million -lrb- $ 711 million -rrb- before the satellite-tv venture makes its delayed debut next spring -- with a major chunk coming from new investors . `` we 'll raise it through bank loans . we 'll raise it through -lcb- new -rcb- equity . and we 'll raise it through existing shareholders '' as well as through junk bonds , said anthony simonds-gooding , the private consortium 's chief executive . he said 0 he believes 0 the bank loan , 0 to be arranged by february , will supply about half of the financing . british satellite , which already has raised # 423.5 million from 10 backers , initially expected to seek an additional # 400 million . mr. simonds-gooding said 0 the additional financing may leave british satellite owned by about 20 investors , including australian entrepreneur alan bond , whose nearly 36 % stake would be reduced to as little as 20 % . bond corp. , british satellite 's biggest investor , would like to withdraw from the satellite-tv consortium , and analysts have speculated 0 hollywood studios might buy the bond stake . but mr. simonds-gooding said 0 he is n't talking to any studios about investing . besides bond corp. , british satellite 's other backers include pearson plc , reed international plc and granada group plc . the consortium faced a setback in may when technical problems forced it to postpone the september launch until next spring . continued uncertainty about the timing of the consortium 's debut could make it hard to find a # 450 million cash injection . mr. simonds-gooding conceded that british satellite 's potential u.k. lenders `` are saying , ` when you 're on the air , you 'll -lcb- actually -rcb- get the money . ' '' the bankers also insist that the loans depend on the consortium raising more money from new and existing backers . british satellite today is unveiling a # 30 million advertising and promotional drive for the consortium 's planned five channels of movies , sports , entertainment and news shows . as part of the drive , the first 50,000 viewers who put up # 10 each will get a package valued at # 170 -- including a satellite receiving dish , equipment installation and a three-month subscription to its pay-movie service . british satellite faces competition from sky television , a satellite-tv venture begun last february and owned by rupert murdoch 's news corp . the rivals currently are locked in a costly bidding contest for hollywood film rights .