in a nondescript office building south of los angeles , human behavior is being monitored , dissected and , ultimately , manipulated . a squiggly line snakes across a video screen , gyrating erratically as subjects with hand-held computers register their second-by-second reactions to a speaker 's remarks . agreement , disapproval , boredom and distraction all can be inferred from the subjects ' twist of a dial . in another experiment , an elaborate chart with color codes reveals how people 's opinions were shaped -- and how they can be reshaped . donald vinson , who oversees the experiments , is n't some white-coated researcher . he heads litigation sciences inc. , the nation 's largest legal consulting firm , which is helping corporate america prepare for high-stakes litigation by predicting and shaping jurors ' reactions . in the process , litigation sciences is quietly but inexorably reshaping the world of law . little known outside the legal world but a powerhouse within , litigation sciences , a unit of saatchi & saatchi plc , employs more than 100 psychologists , sociologists , marketers , graphic artists and technicians . twenty-one of its workers are ph. d.s . among other services , the firm provides pre-trial opinion polls , creates profiles of `` ideal '' jurors , sets up mock trials and `` shadow '' juries , coaches lawyers and witnesses , and designs courtroom graphics . much like their cohorts in political consulting and product marketing , the litigation advisers encourage their clients to play down complex or ambiguous matters , simplify their messages and provide their target audiences with a psychological craving 0 to make the desired choice . with jury verdicts getting bigger all the time , companies are increasingly willing to pay huge sums for such advice . recently , litigation sciences helped pennzoil co. win a $ 10.5 billion jury verdict against texaco inc . it advised the national football league in its largely successful defense of antitrust charges by the united states football league . and it helped win defense verdicts in product-liability suits involving scores of products , ranging from firestone 500 tires to the anti-nausea drug bendectin . largely as a result , litigation sciences has more than doubled in size in the past two years . its 1988 revenue was $ 25 million . meanwhile , competitors are being spawned almost daily ; some 300 new businesses -- many just one-person shops -- have sprung up . mr. vinson estimates 0 the industry 's total revenues approach $ 200 million . in any high-stakes case , you can be sure that one side or the other -- or even both -- is using litigation consultants . despite their ubiquity , the consultants are n't entirely welcome . some lawyers and scholars see the social scientists ' vision of the american jury system as a far cry from the ideal presented in civics texts and memorialized on the movie screen . in the film classic `` twelve angry men , '' the crucible of deliberations unmasks each juror 's bias and purges it from playing a role in the verdict . after hours of conflict and debate , that jury focuses on the facts with near-perfect objectivity . in real life , jurors may not always work that way , but some court observers question why they should n't be encouraged to do so rather than be programmed not to . litigation consulting is , as new york trial attorney donald zoeller puts it , `` highly manipulative . '' he adds , `` the notion 0 they try to sell is that juries do n't make decisions rationally . but the effort is also being made to try and cause jurors not to decide things rationally . i find it troubling . '' but mr. zoeller also acknowledges that consultants can be very effective . `` it 's gotten to the point where if the case is large enough , it 's almost malpractice not to use them , '' he says . others complain that the consultants ' growing influence exacerbates the advantage of litigants wealthy enough to afford such pricey services . `` the affluent people and the corporations can buy it , the poor radicals -lcb- in political cases -rcb- get it free , and everybody in between is at a disadvantage , and that 's not the kind of system 0 we want , '' says amitai etzioni , a prominent sociologist who teaches at george washington university . sophisticated trial consulting grew , ironically , from the radical political movements of the 1960s and 1970s before finding its more lucrative calling in big commercial cases . the harrisburg 7 trial in 1972 , in which daniel berrigan and others were charged with plotting anti-war-related violence , was a landmark . in that case , a group of left-leaning sociologists interviewed 252 registered voters around harrisburg . the researchers discovered that episcopalians , presbyterians , methodists and fundamantalist protestants were nearly always against the defendants ; the lawyers resolved to try to keep them off the jury . the defense also learned that college-educated people were uncharacteristically conservative about the vietnam war . a more blue-collar panel became a second aim . ultimately , that carefully picked jury deadlocked with a 10-2 vote 0 to acquit , and the prosecution decided not to retry the case . litigation consulting had arrived . the fledgling science went corporate in 1977 when international business machines corp. hired a marketing professor 0 to help defend a complex antitrust case . the problem for ibm trial lawyers thomas barr and david boies was how to make such a highly technical case understandable . as the trial progressed , they were eager to know if the jury was keeping up with them . the solution devised by the professor was to hire six people who would mirror the actual jury demographically , sit in on the trial and report their reactions to him . he then briefed messrs. boies and barr , who had the chance to tilt their next day 's presentation accordingly . thus , the `` shadow '' jury was born . mr. vinson , the professor , got the law bug and formed litigation sciences . -lrb- ibm won the case . -rrb- `` the hardest thing in any complex case is to retain objectivity and , in some sense , your ignorance , '' says mr. boies of cravath , swaine & moore . `` what you look for in a shadow jury is very much what you do when you give an opening argument to your wife or a friend and get some response to it . a shadow jury is a way 0 to do that in a more systematic and organized way . '' the approach worked well in the recent antitrust case in which energy transportation systems inc. sued santa fe pacific corp. over the transport of semi-liquefied coal -- the kind of case likely to make almost anyone 's eyes glaze over . energy transportation retained litigation sciences , at a cost of several hundred thousand dollars , 0 to poll , pre-try , profile and shadow . just before the actual closing arguments , the firm put the case to a vote of the five shadow jurors , each of whom was being paid $ 150 a day . the jurors , who did n't know which side had retained them , decided for energy transportation , and awarded $ 500 million in damages . the real jury returned days later with a $ 345 million victory for energy transportation . `` it 's just like weather forecasting , '' says energy transportation trial attorney harry reasoner of vinson & elkins . `` it 's often wrong , but it 's better than consulting an indian rain dancer . '' forecasting is only one part of litigation sciences ' work . changing the outcome of the trial is what really matters . and to the uninitiated , some of the firm 's approaches may seem chillingly manipulative . theoretically , jurors are supposed to weigh the evidence in a case logically and objectively . instead , mr. vinson says 0 , interviews with thousands of jurors reveal that they start with firmly entrenched attitudes and try to shoe-horn the facts of the case 0 to fit their views . pre-trial polling helps the consultants develop a profile of the right type of juror . if it is a case in which the client seeks punitive damages , for example , depressed , underemployed people are far more likely to grant them . someone with a master 's degree in classical arts who works in a deli would be ideal , litigation sciences advises 0 . so would someone recently divorced or widowed . -lrb- since litigation sciences generally represents the defense , its job is usually to help the lawyers identify and remove such people from the jury . -rrb- for personal-injury cases , litigation sciences seeks defense jurors who believe that most people , including victims , get what they deserve . such people also typically hold negative attitudes toward the physically handicapped , the poor , blacks and women . the consultants help the defense lawyers find such jurors by asking questions about potential jurors ' attitudes toward volunteer work , or toward particular movies or books . litigation sciences does n't make moral distinctions . if a client needs prejudiced jurors , the firm will help find them . as mr. vinson explains it , `` we do n't control the facts . they are what they are . but any lawyer will select the facts and the strategy 0 to employ . in our system of advocacy , the trial lawyer is duty bound to present the best case 0 he possibly can . '' once a jury is selected , the consultants often continue to determine what the jurors ' attitudes are likely to be and help shape the lawyers ' presentation accordingly . logic plays a minimal role here . more important are what lsi calls `` psychological anchors '' -- a few focal points calculated to appeal to the jury on a gut level . in one personal-injury case , a woman claimed 0 she had been injured when she slipped in a pool , but the fall did n't explain why one of her arms was discolored bluish . by repeatedly drawing the jury 's attention to the arm , the defense lawyers planted doubt about the origin of the woman 's injuries . the ploy worked . the defense won . in a classic defense of a personal-injury case , the consultants concentrate on encouraging the jury to shift the blame . `` the ideal defense in a case involving an accident is to persuade the jurors to hold the accident victim responsible for his or her plight , '' mr. vinson has written . slick graphics , pre-tested for effectiveness , also play a major role in litigation sciences ' operation . studies show , the consultants say 0 , that people absorb information better and remember it longer if they receive it visually . computer-generated videos help . `` the average american watches seven hours of tv a day . they are very visually sophisticated , '' explains lsi graphics specialist robert seltzer . lawyers remain divided about whether anything is wrong with all this . supporters acknowledge that the process aims to manipulate , but they insist that the best trial lawyers have always employed similar tactics . `` they may not have been able to articulate it all , but they did it , '' says stephen gillers , a legal ethics expert at new york university law school . `` what you have here is intuition made manifest . '' many lawyers maintain that all 's fair in the adversary system as long as no one tampers with the evidence . others point out that lawyers in small communities have always had a feel for public sentiment -- and used that to advantage . litigation consulting is n't a guarantee of a favorable outcome . litigation sciences concedes that in one in 20 cases it was flatout wrong in its predictions . a few attorneys offer horror stories of jobs botched by consultants or of overpriced services -- as when one lawyer paid a consultant -lrb- not at litigation sciences -rrb- $ 70,000 to interview a jury after a big trial and later read more informative interviews with the same jurors in the american lawyer magazine . some litigators scoff at the notion that a sociologist knows more than they do about what makes a jury tick . `` the essence of being a trial lawyer is understanding how people of diverse backgrounds react to you and your presentation , '' says barry ostrager of simpson thacher & bartlett , who recently won a huge case on behalf of insurers against shell oil co . he says 0 he used consultants in the case but `` found them to be virtually useless . '' but most lawyers accept that the marketplace has spoken . and the question remains whether the jury system can maintain its integrity while undergoing such a skillful massage . for more than a decade , mr. etzioni , the sociologist , has been a leading critic of the masseurs . `` there 's no reason 0 to believe that juries rule inappropriately , '' he says . `` but the last thing 0 you want to do is manipulate the subconscious to make them think better . what you then do is 0 you make them think inappropriately . '' to hamper the work of litigation scientists , he suggests that courts sharply limit the number of jurors that lawyers can remove from the jury panel through so-called peremptory challenges -- exclusions that do n't require explanations . in most civil cases , judges allow each side three such challenges . for complex cases , judges sometimes allow many more . mr. etzioni also suggests forbidding anyone from gathering background information about the jurors . -lrb- some courts release names and addresses , and researchers can drive by houses , look up credit ratings , and even question neighbors . -rrb- furthermore , he says 0 , psychologists should not be allowed to analyze jurors ' personalities . even some lawyers who have used consultants to their advantage see a need to limit their impact . mr. boies , the first lawyer 0 to use mr. vinson 's services , cautions against courts ' allowing extensive jury questioning -lrb- known as voir dire -rrb- or giving out personal information about the jurors . `` the more extensive the voir dire , the easier you make it for that kind of research to be effective , and i do n't think 0 courts should lend themselves to that , '' mr. boies says .