groupe ag 's chairman said 0 the belgian insurer is prepared to give up some of its independence to a white knight if necessary to repel a raider . amid heavy buying of shares in belgium 's largest insurer , maurice lippens also warned in an interview that a white knight , in buying out a raider , could leave speculators with big losses on their ag stock . since the beginning of the year , the stock has nearly doubled , giving ag a market value of about 105 billion belgian francs -lrb- $ 2.7 billion -rrb- . the most likely white knight would be societe generale de belgique s.a. , which already owns 18 % of ag and which itself is controlled by cie . financiere de suez , the acquisitive french financial conglomerate . but mr. lippens said 0 a rescue also could involve asahi mutual life insurance co. , which owns 5 % of ag . ag is hardly alone in its anxiety . a rambunctious shake-up is quickly reshaping europe 's once-stately insurance business . worried by european community directives that will remove many of the barriers to cross-border insurance services , starting in mid-1990 , insurers are rushing to find partners and preparing for price wars . in west germany and the netherlands , insurers are flirting with banks . in france , suez and axa-midi assurances s.a. both have been on the prowl for giant acquisitions ; suez last month acquired control of groupe victoire , the sixth-largest european insurance company , after a takeover battle with cie . industrielle . mr. lippens said 0 the volume of shares changing hands has grown significantly since mid-september . but he estimated that a raider would have been able to amass no more than 4 % of the shares in recent months . aside from exploring plans for joint ventures or acquisitions , mr. lippens has called top managers of companies rumored as potential raiders -- among them , axa-midi , union des assurances de paris and suez , all based in france . they have all `` very clearly stated that they have not acquired and are not acquiring shares of ag , '' he said 0 . any raider would find it hard to crack ag 's battlements . a `` syndicate '' of shareholders holds just under 50 % of ag , mr. lippens said 0 , and members have agreed to give one another the right of first refusal should they sell any ag shares . aside from generale de belgique and asahi , the syndicate includes antwerpsche hypotheekkas , a belgian savings bank , and various family interests . a generale spokesman confirmed that the giant belgian holding company would be willing to raise its stake in ag should a raider seek control . asahi officials could n't be reached for comment . even without bid talk , this year 's surge in prices for brussels real estate has excited interest in ag . the company says 0 those holdings constitute the third-biggest real-estate portfolio in belgium .