the 1986 tax overhaul , the biggest achievement of president reagan 's second term , is beginning to fall apart , and interest groups are lining up for tax goodies all over capitol hill . real-estate executives are lobbying to ease anti-tax-shelter rules . charitable groups are trying to reinstate the write-off for contributions made by individuals who do n't itemize their deductions . big auction houses want to make collectibles eligible for lower capital-gains taxes . and heavy-industry lobbyists are quietly discussing the possibility of reinstating the investment tax credit . `` everything is up for grabs , '' says theodore groom , a lobbyist for mutual life-insurance companies . adds robert juliano , the head lobbyist for a variety of interests that want to protect the tax deduction for travel and entertainment expenses : `` it appears as though the whole thing is wide open again . '' the catalyst has been the congressional move to restore preferential tax treatment for capital gains , an effort that is likely to succeed in this congress . other fundamental `` reforms '' of the 1986 act have been threatened as well . the house seriously considered raising the top tax rate paid by individuals with the highest incomes . the senate finance committee voted to expand the deduction for individual retirement accounts , and also to bring back income averaging for farmers , a tax preference that allows income to be spread out over several years . as part of the same bill , the finance panel also voted in favor of billions of dollars in narrow tax breaks for individuals and corporations , in what committee member sen. david pryor -lrb- d. , ark . -rrb- calls a `` feeding frenzy '' of special-interest legislating . the beneficiaries would range from pineapple growers to rich grandparents to tuxedo-rental shops . to be sure , the full senate , facing a fast-approaching budget deadline , last friday stripped away all of the tax breaks that were contained in the finance committee bill . but lawmakers of both parties agree that the streamlining was temporary . other bills will be moving soon that are expected to carry many of the tax cuts , including both the capital-gains and ira provisions . `` there is n't any doubt that the thread of the '86 code has been given a mighty tug , '' says rep. thomas downey -lrb- d. , n.y . -rrb- . `` you 'll see the annual unraveling of it . '' `` it 's back to tax-give-away time for the select few , '' says rep. william gray of pennsylvania , the third-ranking democrat in the house . referring to the chairmen of the senate and house tax-writing committees , he adds , `` next year , every special-interest group is going to be there knocking on lloyd bentsen 's door , on danny rostenkowski 's door . '' many groups are n't waiting that long . just last week , a house ways and means subcommittee held a lengthy meeting to hear the pleas of individual cities , companies and interest groups who want to open their own special loopholes . `` it 's a swiss-cheese factory and the cheese smells pretty good , '' commented one veteran lobbyist who was watching the proceedings . even lobbyists for heavy industry , one of the interests hit hardest in the 1986 bill , are encouraged . the return of pro-investment tax breaks such as those for capital gains and iras `` creates more of a mood or a mindset that is helpful for getting better depreciation -lrb- write-offs -rrb- or investment credits , '' says 0 paul huard , a vice president for the national association of manufacturers . corporate lobbyist charls walker is planning a spring conference 0 to discuss what tax changes to make to improve `` competitiveness . '' in reaction to proposed capital-gains legislation , groups are lobbying to make sure 0 they are n't left off the gravy train . real-estate interests , for example , are protesting an omission in president bush 's capital-gains proposal : it does n't include real-estate gains . `` if there is going to be a tax scheme that contemplates lower treatment of capital gains , they certainly want to be part of it , '' says real-estate lobbyist wayne thevenot of concord associates . in the house-passed tax bill , mr. thevenot got his wish ; real-estate assets are included in the capital-gains provision . but sotheby 's , christie 's and the national association of antique dealers are still trying to get theirs . they have sent a letter to congressional tax-writers asking that gains from the sale of collectibles also be given preferential treatment . `` collectibles should continue to be recognized as capital assets , '' the letter states . all of this talk is antithetical to the tax reform act of 1986 . in exchange for dramatically lower tax rates , the framers of that legislation sought to eliminate most of the exemptions , deductions and credits that gave some taxpayers an advantage over others . the goal was to tax people with roughly equivalent incomes equally , and to eliminate the many shelters that allowed the wealthy to escape taxes . two of the major ways that tax-writers managed to attain these ends were to scrap the preferential treatment of capital gains and to curtail the use of paper losses , also known as passive losses , that made many tax shelters possible . many other tax benefits also were swept away . this year congress , with prodding from president bush , has been busy trying to put many of these same tax preferences back into the code . it appears likely that , this year or next , some form of capital-gains preference and passive-loss restoration will be enacted . other tax benefits probably will be restored and created . the main obstacle is finding a way 0 to pay for them . `` the '86 act was a fluke . they wanted reform and they got a revolution , '' says overhaul advocate rep. willis gradison -lrb- r. , ohio -rrb- . so , is the tax code now open game again ? mr. juliano thinks so . one recent saturday morning he stayed inside the capitol monitoring tax-and-budget talks instead of flying to san francisco for a fund-raiser and then to his hometown of chicago for the 30th reunion of st. ignatius high school . `` i 'm too old 0 to waste a weekend , but that 's what i did , '' the 48-year-old mr. juliano moans . `` these days , anything can happen .