r. gordon mcgovern was forced out as campbell soup co. 's president and chief executive officer , the strongest evidence yet of the power that dorrance family members intend to wield in reshaping the troubled food company . herbert m. baum , the 53-year-old president of the company 's campbell u.s.a. unit , and edwin l. harper , 47 , the chief financial officer , will run campbell as a team , dividing responsibilities rather evenly until a successor is named . the board already has been searching for strong outside candidates , including food-industry executives with considerable international experience . wall street reacted favorably to mr. mcgovern 's departure and its implications . in heavy trading on the new york stock exchange , campbell 's shares rose $ 3.375 to close at $ 47.125 . `` the profit motive of the major shareholders has clearly changed for the better , '' said john mcmillin , a food industry analyst for prudential-bache in new york . mr. mcgovern was widely seen as sales , and not profit , oriented . `` new managers would think a little more like wall street , '' mr. mcmillin added . some of the surge in the stock 's price appeared to be linked to revived takeover speculation , which has contributed to volatility of campbell shares in recent months . campbell 's international businesses , particularly in the u.k. and italy , appear to be at the heart of its problems . growth has fallen short of targets and operating earnings are far below results in u.s. units . for example , campbell is a distant third in the u.k. frozen foods market , where it recently paid 24 times earnings for freshbake foods plc and wound up with far more capacity than it could use . similarly , campbell 's italian biscuit operation , d. lazzaroni & co. , has been hurt by overproduction and distribution problems . such problems will require considerable skill to resolve . however , neither mr. baum nor mr. harper has much international experience . mr. baum , a seasoned marketer who is said to have a good rapport with campbell employees , will have responsibility for all domestic operations except the pepperidge farm unit . mr. harper , a veteran of several manufacturing companies who joined campbell in 1986 , will take charge of all overseas operations as well as pepperidge . in an joint interview yesterday , both men said 0 they would like to be the company 's next chief executive . mr. mcgovern , 63 , had been under intense pressure from the board to boost campbell 's mediocre performance to the level of other food companies . the board is dominated by the heirs of the late john t. dorrance jr. , who controlled about 58 % of campbell 's stock when he died in april . in recent months , mr. dorrance 's children and other family members have pushed for improved profitability and higher returns on their equity . in august , the company took a $ 343 million pretax charge against fiscal 1989 earnings when it announced a world-wide restructuring plan . the plan calls for closing at least nine plants and eliminating about 3,600 jobs . but analysts said 0 early results from the reorganization have been disappointing , especially in europe , and there were signs that the board became impatient . campbell officials said 0 mr. mcgovern was n't available yesterday to discuss the circumstances of his departure . the company 's prepared statement quoted him as saying , `` the ceo succession is well along and i 've decided for personal reasons to take early retirement . '' but people familiar with the agenda of the board 's meeting last week in london said 0 mr. mcgovern was fired . mr. mcgovern himself had said repeatedly that he intended to stay on until he reached the conventional retirement age of 65 in october 1991 , `` unless i get fired . '' campbell said 0 mr. mcgovern had withdrawn his name as a candidate for re-election as a director at the annual shareholder meeting , scheduled for nov. 17 . for fiscal 1989 , mr. mcgovern received a salary of $ 877,663 . he owns about 45,000 shares of campbell stock and has options to buy more than 100,000 additional shares . he will be eligible for an annual pension of more than $ 244,000 with certain other fringe benefits . during mr. mcgovern 's nine-year term as president , the company 's sales rose to $ 5.7 billion from $ 2.8 billion and net income increased to $ 274 million from $ 130 million , the statement said 0 . mr. baum said 0 he and mr. harper both advocated closing some plants as long ago as early 1988 . `` you 've got to make the restructuring work , '' said mr. baum . `` you 've got to make those savings now . '' mr. harper expressed confidence that he and mr. baum can convince the board of their worthiness to run the company . `` we look upon this as a great opportunity to prove the fact that we have a tremendous management team , '' he said . he predicted that the board would give the current duo until early next year before naming a new chief executive . mr. baum said 0 the two have orders to `` focus on bottom-line profits '' and to `` take a hard look at our businesses -- what is good , what is not so good . '' analysts generally applaud the performance of campbell u.s.a. , the company 's largest division , which posted 6 % unit sales growth and a 15 % improvement in operating profit for fiscal 1989 . `` the way that we 've been managing campbell u.s.a. can hopefully spread to other areas of the company , '' mr. baum said . in the interview at headquarters yesterday afternoon , both men exuded confidence and seemed to work well together . `` you 've got two champions sitting right before you , '' said mr. baum . `` we play to win .