for six years , t. marshall hahn jr. has made corporate acquisitions in the george bush mode : kind and gentle . the question now : can he act more like hard-charging teddy roosevelt ? mr. hahn , the 62-year-old chairman and chief executive officer of georgia-pacific corp. is leading the forest-product concern 's unsolicited $ 3.19 billion bid for great northern nekoosa corp . nekoosa has given the offer a public cold shoulder , a reaction 0 mr. hahn has n't faced in his 18 earlier acquisitions , all of which were negotiated behind the scenes . so far , mr. hahn is trying to entice nekoosa into negotiating a friendly surrender while talking tough . `` we are prepared to pursue aggressively completion of this transaction , '' he says . but a takeover battle opens up the possibility of a bidding war , with all 0 that implies . if a competitor enters the game , for example , mr. hahn could face the dilemma of paying a premium for nekoosa or seeing the company fall into the arms of a rival . given that choice , associates of mr. hahn and industry observers say 0 the former university president -- who has developed a reputation for not overpaying for anything -- would fold . `` there 's a price above which i 'm positive 0 marshall has the courage 0 not to pay , '' says a.d. correll , georgia-pacific 's executive vice president for pulp and paper . says long-time associate jerry griffin , vice president , corporate development , at wtd industries inc. : `` he is n't of the old school of winning at any cost . '' he also is a consensus manager , insiders say 0 . the decision to make the bid for nekoosa , for example , was made only after all six members of georgia-pacific 's management committee signed onto the deal -- even though mr. hahn knew 0 he wanted to go after the company early on , says 0 mr. correll . associates say 0 mr. hahn picked up that careful approach to management as president of virginia polytechnic institute . assuming that post at the age of 35 , he managed by consensus , as is the rule in universities , says 0 warren h. strother , a university official who is researching a book on mr. hahn . but he also showed a willingness to take a strong stand . in 1970 , mr. hahn called in state police to arrest student protesters who were occupying a university building . that impressed robert b. pamplin , georgia-pacific 's chief executive at the time , whom mr. hahn had met while fundraising for the institute . in 1975 , mr. pamplin enticed mr. hahn into joining the company as executive vice president in charge of chemicals ; the move befuddled many in georgia-pacific who did n't believe 0 a university administrator could make the transition to the corporate world . but mr. hahn rose swiftly through the ranks , demonstrating a raw intelligence that he says 0 he knew 0 he possessed early on . the son of a physicist , mr. hahn skipped first grade because his reading ability was so far above his classmates . moving rapidly through school , he graduated phi beta kappa from the university of kentucky at age 18 , after spending only 2 1\/2 years in college . he earned his doctorate in nuclear physics from the massachusetts institute of technology . mr. hahn agrees that he has a `` retentive '' memory , but friends say 0 that 's an understatement . they call it `` photographic '' . mr. hahn also has engineered a surprising turnaround of georgia-pacific . taking over as chief executive officer in 1983 , he inherited a company that was mired in debt and hurt by a recession-inspired slide in its building-products business . mr. hahn began selling non-core businesses , such as oil and gas and chemicals . he even sold one unit that made vinyl checkbook covers . at the same time , he began building up the pulp and paper segment of the company while refocusing building products on home repair and remodeling , rather than materials for new-home construction . the idea was to buffet building products from cycles in new-home construction . the formula has paid off , so far . georgia-pacific 's sales climbed to $ 9.5 billion last year , compared with $ 6 billion in 1983 , when mr. hahn took the reins . profit from continuing operations has soared to $ 467 million from $ 75 million . mr. hahn attributes the gains to the philosophy of concentrating on what a company knows best . `` the record of companies that have diversified is n't all that impressive , '' he says . nekoosa would n't be a diversification . it would be a good match , mr. hahn and many analysts say 0 , of two healthy companies with high-quality assets and strong cash flows . the resulting company would be the largest forest-products concern in the world with combined sales of more than $ 13 billion . but can mr. hahn carry it off ? in this instance , industry observers say 0 , he is entering uncharted waters . says kathryn mcauley , an analyst at first manhattan co. : `` this is the greatest acquisition challenge 0 he has faced .