for the real estate industry , a watchword for the 1990s will be buy , more than build . that 's the word expected to be on the lips of the more than 3,000 developers , pension-fund advisers and real estate financiers slated to attend a four-day conference , beginning here today , sponsored by the urban land institute . the uli is a non-profit research and education group based in washington , d.c. , with 14,000 members nationwide . with the market overbuilt , builders are finding limited opportunities and increased risks . developers and money managers are looking for bargains among the thousands of financially troubled properties around the country . real estate professionals now often bill themselves as `` turnaround experts '' and `` workout specialists . '' conference attendees are expected to be buzzing about the workings of the recently formed resolution trust corp. , a federal agency charged with disposing of an estimated $ 200 billion of real estate dumped in government hands by insolvent savings and loans . developers are also eyeing the real estate portfolios of major corporations . some plan to pursue foreign development ventures , mostly in europe . and other developers may shift from commercial to residential development in the u.s. . `` there are n't as many economically viable alternatives for real estate developers in this country as 10 years ago , '' says charles shaw , a chicago-based real estate developer . `` so developers are saying 0 they will look into distressed properties . they 'll go into someone else 's pasture as long as it 's greener than the one 0 they 're in now . '' developers are also forming more joint ventures with pension funds and insurance companies that can finance big projects . the builders are more willing to give up some equity and rely on management and consulting fees to stay afloat in the soft market . `` developers are teaming up with institutions often acting as project managers , '' says smedes york , uli president and president of york properties inc. , of raleigh , n.c . `` they are growing more pragmatic about their role . '' real estate firms are also using their alliances with financial institutions to amass acquisition funds . `` why should you beat your brains out fighting the environmentalists , the neighborhood groups , dealing with traffic mitigation , sewers and fighting city hall , then try to convince a lender to lend you money in an overbuilt market when you can get pension fund money , buy a portfolio , sell off pieces off it and play your own game ? '' says jack rodman , managing partner of the los angeles office of kenneth leventhal inc. a national accounting firm . but experts say that when it comes to distressed properties , finding diamonds in the rough is n't easy . the level of interest in the rtc 's properties has been greater than expected , and has come from larger companies than initially anticipated , says 0 stan ross , leventhal 's co-managing partner . and to succeed in the turnaround business , he says 0 , developers may have to put in a lot of money and time . finding pension funds and other sources willing to invest is a high priority . quips david shulman , director of real estate research for salomon brothers inc. : `` a theme of the urban land conference will be ` take a pension fund manager to lunch .