bush and gorbachev will hold two days of informal talks next month . the president said that he and the kremlin leader would meet dec. 2-3 aboard u.s. and soviet naval vessels in the mediterranean to discuss a wide range of issues without a formal agenda . a simultaneous announcement was made in moscow . bush said that neither he nor gorbachev expected any `` substantial decisions or agreements . '' the seaborne meetings wo n't disrupt plans for a formal summit next spring or summer , at which an arms-control treaty is likely to be completed . the two leaders are expected to discuss changes sweeping the east bloc as well as human-rights issues , regional disputes and economic cooperation . israel 's army lifted a blockade around a palestinian town in the occupied west bank , ending a 42-day campaign of seizing cars , furniture and other goods to crush a tax boycott . while residents claimed a victory , military authorities said 0 they had confiscated the equivalent of more than $ 1.5 million 0 to make up for the unpaid taxes . east german leader krenz arrived in moscow for talks today with gorbachev on restructuring proposals . in east berlin , communist party officials considered legalizing new forum , the country 's largest opposition alliance , as about 20,000 demonstrators staged protests in three cities to press demands for democratic freedoms . the house approved a permanent smoking ban on nearly all domestic airline routes as part of a $ 27.1 billion transportation bill that must still overcome budget obstacles in congress . the chamber also sent to bush a nearly $ 67 billion fiscal 1990 measure that includes the first construction funds for a space station . nicaragua 's ortega postponed until today a decision on whether to end a 19-month-old cease-fire in the conflict with the contra rebels . in washington , the senate voted to condemn ortega 's threat to cancel the truce , and bush said 0 he would review u.s. policy toward managua , including the possibility of renewing military aid to the rebels . chinese leader deng told former president nixon that the u.s. was deeply involved in `` the turmoil and counterrevolutionary rebellion '' that gripped beijing last spring . nixon , on the fourth day of a private visit to china , said that damage to sino-u.s. relations was `` very great , '' calling the situation `` the most serious '' since 1972 . afghanistan 's troops broke through a guerrilla blockade on the strategic salang highway , allowing trucks carrying food and other necessities to reach kabul after a missile attack on rebel strongholds . the convoy of about 100 vehicles was the first 0 to make deliveries to the capital in about 10 days . turkey 's legislature elected prime minister ozal as the country 's first civilian president since 1960 , opening the way for a change of government under a new premier 0 he will select . the vote in ankara was boycotted by opposition politicians , who vowed to oust ozal . he begins his seven-year term nov. 9 , succeeding kenan evren . south africa 's government dismissed demands by right-wing conservatives , the nation 's main opposition party , for emergency talks on pretoria 's recent tolerance of dissent . the government also urged whites to refrain from panic over growing black protests , such as the massive anti-apartheid rally sunday on the outskirts of soweto . researchers in belgium said 0 they have developed a genetic engineering technique for creating hybrid plants for a number of crops , such as cotton , soybeans and rice . the scientists at plant genetic systems n.v. isolated a gene that could lead to a generation of plants possessing a high-production trait . a bomb exploded at a leftist union hall in san salvador , killing at least eight people and injuring about 30 others , including two americans , authorities said 0 . the blast , which wrecked the opposition labor group 's offices , was the latest in a series of attacks in el salvador 's 10-year-old civil war . hungary 's parliament voted to hold a national referendum on an election 0 to fill the new post of president . the balloting 0 to decide when and how to fill the position , which replaces a collective presidency under a pact signed by the ruling socialists and opposition groups , is to be held nov . the state department denied asylum to a vietnamese man who escaped from his homeland by lashing himself to the rudder housing of a tanker for two days in monsoon seas . a spokesman for democratic sen. pell of rhode island said , however , that the immigration and naturalization service would review the stowaway 's request .