residents of this city soon will be seeing ads urging them to visit `` cleveland 's outdoor museum '' -- lake view cemetery . despite such famous tenants as oil magnate john d. rockefeller , lake view cemetery has fallen on hard times . so the inner-city burial ground is trying to resurrect itself with a television advertising campaign . the ads celebrate the achievements of some of lake view 's residents . a spot honoring bill white , the inventor of chewing gum , shows a woman trying to extricate her high-heeled shoe from a wad of gum . another focuses on charles brush , the first person 0 to light a city electrically . it shows a boy hurling rocks at a street lamp . street lights , the ad points out 0 , `` helped sharpen the arm of many a budding baseball player . '' cemetery officials hope 0 the ads , which will begin airing next month , will not only draw visitors but bolster burials and endowment fund contributions . lake view had an operating deficit last year and has a poor reputation as an out-of-repair and crime-infested cemetery . the private , non-profit cemetery has had trouble competing against its for-profit counterparts , which use direct mail and other advertising to sell lots . `` we do n't want to be known as ambulance chasers , '' says william garrison , lake view 's president . `` we want people to think of lake view as an historical park and educational experience ... . a pleasant place 0 to come and spend a few hours . '' not all of the cemetery 's better-known tenants lend themselves to the promotional job at hand , however . for example , president james a. garfield is entombed here , the victim of an assassination in 1881 . -lrb- mr. garrison notes , however , that the garfield tomb is one of the nation 's premier examples of romanesque architecture . -rrb- mr. rockefeller , buried beneath a 180-foot-tall granite obelisk , did n't seem right for an ad either . the oil magnate , who spent his later years passing out dimes to counter his penny-pinching image , `` is n't terribly amusing , '' says 0 barry olson , creative director at innis-maggiore-olson , canton , ohio , which is producing the ads . but there are plenty of other promising prospects at lake view , promoters believe 0 : ernest ball , for instance , who wrote `` when irish eyes are smiling , '' and garrett morgan , the inventor of the gas mask and the tri-colored traffic light .