as program trading comes under renewed attack for causing stock market gyrations , a few people on wall street say 0 it is time 0 to consider extreme measures . the real answer to curbing wild swings in stock prices , they say 0 , might be to curb or even abolish stock-index futures . a stock-index future is a contract to buy or sell the market value of a basket of stocks , such as the standard & poor 's 500-stock index . since stock futures were created in 1982 , trading on the chicago mercantile exchange and other exchanges has boomed to the point where trading in stock-index futures rivals that in the stocks themselves . the conventional view , as voiced by goldman , sachs & co. partner fischer black , is that stocks and `` derivatives '' such as futures and options `` form a single market , and that derivatives make it a more liquid market . '' but increasingly , people are questioning that view , and the critics include some of the country 's most successful investors . warren buffett has been on record as opposing stock-index futures since their inception in 1982 . and mario gabelli , another star in the investing world , says , `` my gut says 0 the negatives of futures and synthetics far outweigh the benefits . '' like others , mr. gabelli says that if futures cause investors to lose confidence in stocks , they will move away from stocks -- as many have already done . and those who remain , he says 0 `` will demand a higher return and over time raise the cost of capital to companies . '' essentially , the critics of stock-index futures fall into two camps . one group says 0 the futures contribute to stock market volatility ; the other contends that futures are a sideshow of speculation that detracts from the stock market 's basic function of raising capital . `` before futures , '' says new york investor michael harkins , `` you actually had to pay attention to whether the thing 0 you were buying had any intrinsic value . '' while it was once expected that futures would mimic stock prices , traders now routinely check the futures markets in chicago before they buy or sell stocks . when chicago futures prices jump up or down , the new york stock exchange follows . on tuesday , for instance , the dow jones industrial average plunged 80 points in little more than an hour . then , in the space of a 20-minute coffee break , the average rallied almost all of the way back . paul lesutis , who manages more than $ 3 billion of investments at provident capital management inc. , blames futures markets for leading the way . `` the fundamentals do n't change in an hour , '' he says . `` i think 0 they should close down the futures exchange and then we could get back to investing . '' index arbitrage -- the rapid-fire buying and selling of stocks offset with opposite trades in futures -- is frequently blamed for adding to stock market volatility . although index arbitrage is said to add liquidity to markets , john bachmann , managing partner of edward d. jones , says 0 too much liquidity is n't a good thing `` the kind of instant liquidity that is implied by index futures is that you can buy a portfolio over two years and get out in one day . it 's too disruptive , '' he says . `` it is n't investing . '' but stock-index futures have plenty of support . defenders say 0 futures make markets more efficient and provide ways 0 for investors to reduce risks . they note that stocks experienced volatile swings long before futures . and , defenders say 0 , few people complain about futures when stock prices are rising . louis margolis , managing director in charge of equity options and futures at salomon inc. , says that trading baskets of stocks began in the 1970s , a decade before the advent of futures . futures , he says 0 , merely cut down on trading costs . he says `` blaming futures is like blaming the messenger . '' since stock-index arbitrage merely narrows the gap between prices in the futures and stock markets , it ca n't add to volatility , he says 0 . futures `` do n't need defending , '' says andrew yemma , a spokesman for the chicago mercantile exchange , which trades the s&p 500 , by far the largest stock-index futures contract . despite the current outcry over stock market volatility , few people expect stock futures to disappear . for one thing , the chicago futures exchanges have political and financial clout -- including many friends in congress . and traders say that futures have become an accepted part of the financial landscape . `` all life is about change -- either you adapt or die , '' says one chicago futures trader . `` if futures are n't permitted here , we 'll take it to australia or tokyo . '' average daily volume in s&p 500 futures last year was 44,877 contracts . based on yesterday 's closing price of the s&p , the average value of one day 's trading amounts to $ 7.6 billion . by contrast , average dollar volume on the big board last year was $ 5.3 billion . many investment managers say 0 futures are useful as a way 0 to hedge portfolios . if managers fear that the overall stock market will fall , but want to continue owning stocks , they can hold on to specific stocks and sell a corresponding amount of futures contracts . average daily volume in s&p 500 futures last year was 44,877 contracts . based on yesterday 's closing price of the s&p , the average value of one day 's trading amounts to $ 7.6 billion . by contrast , average dollar volume on the big board last year was $ 5.3 billion . many investment managers say 0 futures are useful as a way 0 to hedge portfolios . if managers fear that the overall stock market will fall , but want to continue owning stocks , they can hold on to specific stocks and sell a corresponding amount of futures contracts . and although criticism of futures generally comes from wall street , one chicago futures trader notes that brokerage firms rely on futures as hedging tools when they buy and sell big blocks of stocks from institutions . one reason 0 futures are said to add volatility is that -- unlike in stocks -- people can speculate in futures with little money down . margin requirements for speculators on the chicago mercantile exchange are currently about 7 % . `` for $ 10 million , you can move $ 100 million of stocks , '' a specialist on the big board gripes . `` that gives futures traders a lot more power . '' by contrast , an investor in stocks must put up 50 % in cash . some critics say 0 futures encourage people to think of stocks as a single commodity , rather than as investments in individual businesses . thus , they say 0 , futures inhibit the basic purpose of the stock market : to accurately price securities so that capital and investment flows where it 's needed most . the s&p 500 index futures `` transferred the identity of 500 stocks into one unit - making them a simple commodity 0 to trade , '' says george kegler , senior vice president at a. webster dougherty in philadelphia . `` it took away the need to know the bad third-quarter report of ibm , for example , '' mr. kegler says . of course , portfolio trading -- the increasingly common practice of buying or selling baskets of actual stocks -- also treats stocks as homogenous commodities . `` there is a class of investor that wants to be exposed '' to the whole market , says sandip bhagat , assistant vice president at travelers investment management co . the s&p futures are merely a `` cheaper and quicker '' way 0 to get access to all 500 stocks , he says 0 . the big board yesterday began trading in its own basket trading vehicle representing the s&p 500 stocks . but owning index futures is n't the same as owning the underlying stocks . stockholders , as a group , can win , because they own a share of corporate earnings , which can grow and boost stock prices . futures , on the other hand , are a zero sum game -- a market for making side bets about the direction of stock prices . `` you do n't own anything , '' says stephen boesel , a money manager for t. rowe price in baltimore . `` you 're making a pure bet on the market .