for 20 years , federal rules have barred the three major television networks from sharing in one of the most lucrative and fastest-growing parts of the television business . and for six years , nbc , abc and cbs have negotiated with hollywood studios in a futile attempt to change that . but with foreign companies snapping up u.s. movie studios , the networks are pressing their fight harder than ever . they hope 0 the foreign deals will divide the hollywood opposition and prod congress to push for ending federal rules that prohibit the networks from grabbing a piece of rerun sales and owning part of the shows 0 they put on the air . even network executives , however , admit privately that victory -- either in congress or in talks with the studios -- is highly doubtful any time soon . and so the networks also are pushing for new ways 0 to sidestep the `` fin-syn '' provisions , known formally as the financial interest and syndication rules . that became clear last week with the disclosure that national broadcasting co. , backed by the deep pockets of parent general electric co. , had tried to help fund qintex australia ltd. 's now-scuttled $ 1.5 billion bid for mgm\/ua communications co . nbc 's interest may revive the deal , which mgm\/ua killed last week when the australian concern had trouble raising cash . even if that deal is n't revived , nbc hopes to find another . `` our doors are open , '' an nbc spokesman says . nbc may yet find a way 0 to take a passive , minority interest in a program-maker without violating the rules . and any nbc effort could prompt cbs inc. and abc 's parent , capital cities\/abc inc. , to look for ways of skirting the fin-syn regulations . but the networks ' push may only aggravate an increasingly bitter rift between them and hollywood studios . both sides are to sit down next month for yet another meeting on how they might agree on reducing fin-syn restraints . few people privy to the talks expect the studios to budge . the networks still are `` uninhibited in their authority '' over what shows get on the air , charges motion picture association president jack valenti , the most vociferous opponent of rescinding the rules . studios are `` powerless '' to get shows in prime-time lineups and keep them there long enough to go into lucrative rerun sales , he contends 0 . and that 's why the rules , for the most part , must stay in place , he says 0 . studio executives in on the talks - including officials at paramount communications inc. , fries entertainment inc. , warner communications inc. and mca inc. -- declined to be interviewed . but mr. valenti , who represents the studios , asserts : `` 0 the whole production industry , to a man , is on the side of preserving '' the rules . such proclamations leave network officials all the more doubtful that the studios will bend . `` they do n't seem to have an incentive to negotiate , '' says one network executive . `` and there 's no indication that washington is prepared to address the rules . that 's the problem , is n't it ? '' indeed it is . congress has said repeatedly 0 it wants no part of the mess , urging the studios and the networks , which license rights to air shows made by the studios , to work out their own compromise . but recent developments have made the networks -- and nbc president robert wright , in particular -- ever more adamant that the networks must be unshackled to survive . the latest provocation : sony corp. 's plan to acquire columbia pictures entertainment inc. for $ 3.4 billion , and to buy independent producer guber peters entertainment co. for $ 200 million . `` i wonder what walter cronkite will think of the sony\/columbia broadcast system trinitron evening news with dan rather broadcast exclusively from tokyo , '' wrote j.b. holston , an nbc vice president , in a commentary in last week 's issue of broadcasting magazine . in his article , mr. holston , who was in europe last week and unavailable , complained that the `` archaic restraints '' in fin-syn rules have `` contributed directly to the acquisition of the studios by non-u.s. enterprises . '' -lrb- he did n't mention that nbc , in the meantime , was hoping to assist australia 's qintex in buying an nbc spokesman counters that mr. holston 's lament was `` entirely consistent '' with nbc plans because the u.s. rules would limit nbc 's involvement in the qintex deal so severely as to be `` light years away from the type of unrestrained deals available to sony -- and everyone else except the three networks . '' the big three 's drumbeat for deregulation began intensifying in the summer when the former time inc. went ahead with plans to acquire warner . although time already had a long-term contract to buy movies from warner , the merger will let time 's largely unregulated pay-cable channel , home box office , own the warner movies aired on hbo -- a vertical integration that is effectively blocked by fin-syn regulations . nbc 's mr. wright led the way in decrying the networks ' inability to match a time-warner combination . he spoke up again when the sony bid for columbia was announced . since nbc 's interest in the qintex bid for mgm\/ua was disclosed , mr. wright has n't been available for comment . with a qintex deal , nbc would move into uncharted territory -- possibly raising hackles at the studios and in washington . `` it 's never really been tested , '' says william lilley iii , who as a top cbs executive spent years lobbying to have the rules lifted . he now runs policy communications in washington , consulting to media companies . fin-syn rules do n't explicitly block a network from buying a passive , small stake in a company that profits from the rerun syndication 0 networks ca n't enjoy . hence , nbc might be able to take , say , a 5 % stake in a company such as mgm\/ua . if the transaction raised objections , the studio 's syndication operations could be spun off into a separate firm in which the network does n't have a direct stake . but such convolutions would still block the networks from grabbing a big chunk of the riches of syndication . under current rules , even when a network fares well with a 100%-owned series -- abc , for example , made a killing in broadcasting its popular crime\/comedy `` moonlighting '' -- it is n't allowed to share in the continuing proceeds when the reruns are sold to local stations . instead , abc will have to sell off the rights for a one-time fee . the networks admit that the chances of getting the relief 0 they want are slim -- for several years at the least . six years ago they were tantalizingly close . the reagan-era federal communications commission had ruled in favor of killing most of the rules . various evidence , including a brookings institution study of some 800 series that the networks had aired and had partly owned in the 1960s , showed 0 the networks did n't wield undue control over the studios as had been alleged . but just eight days before the rules were to die , former president ronald reagan , a one-time actor , intervened on behalf of hollywood . the fcc effort collapsed . the networks and studios have bickered ever since . network officials involved in the studio talks may hope 0 the foreign influx builds more support in washington , but that seems unlikely . in congress , the issue falters : it 's about money , not program quality , and hollywood has lots of clout given its fund raising for senators and representatives overseeing the issue . a spokesman for rep. edward j. markey -lrb- d-mass. -rrb- , who heads a subcommittee that oversees the fcc , says 0 mr. markey feels `` 0 the world has been forever changed by the sony-columbia deal . '' but he said 0 mr. markey hopes 0 this pushes the networks and studios to work it out on their own . and at the fcc , meanwhile , new chairman alfred c. sikes has said 0 he wants the two sides to hammer out their own plan .