international business machines corp. said 0 its board approved the purchase of $ 1 billion of its common shares , a move that should help support its battered stock . even as the stock market has generally done well this year , ibm 's shares have slipped steadily from its 52-week high of $ 130.875 . yesterday 's closing price of $ 101.75 , down 50 cents , in composite trading on the new york stock exchange , puts the stock at about 1 1\/2 times book value , which is as low as it has sunk over the past decade . the announcement came after the market 's close . the move by ibm was n't exactly a surprise . the company has spent some $ 5 billion over the past 3 1\/2 years to buy back 42 million common shares , or roughly 7 % of those outstanding . in addition , despite ibm 's well-publicized recent problems , the computer giant still generates enormous amounts of cash . as of the end of the second quarter , it had $ 4.47 billion of cash and marketable securities on hand . as a result , some securities analysts had predicted in recent days that ibm would authorize additional purchases . in armonk , n.y. , a spokesman said that although ibm did n't view its spending as necessarily a way 0 to support the stock , it thought 0 the purchases were a good way 0 to improve such financial measurements as per-share earnings and return on equity . `` we view it as a good long-term investment , '' the spokesman said . in the short term , the move is likely to have little effect . at yesterday 's closing price , $ 1 billion would buy back about 10 million shares , or less than 2 % of the roughly 580 million outstanding . in addition , as of sept. 30 , the company still had authorization to buy $ 368 million of stock under a prior repurchase program . over the long term , however , ibm 's stock repurchases -- along with its hefty , $ 4.84-a-share annual dividend and generally loyal following among large institutional investors -- are providing a floor for the stock price . although ibm last year produced its first strong results in four years and was expected to continue to roll this year , it began faltering as early as january . first , it had trouble manufacturing a chip for its mainframes , ibm 's bread-and-butter business . then it had a series of smaller glitches , including problems manufacturing certain personal computers and the delay in the announcement of some important workstations . finally , ibm had to delay the introduction of some high-end disk drives , which account for 10 % of its $ 60 billion of annual revenue . none of the problems is necessarily fatal , and they are n't all necessarily even related . there are also other factors at work that are outside ibm 's control , such as currency exchange rates . the strong dollar , which reduces the value of overseas earnings and revenue when they are translated into dollars , is expected to knock 80 to 85 cents off ibm 's per-share earnings for the full year . without that problem , ibm might have matched last year 's earnings of $ 5.81 billion , or $ 9.80 a share . still , investors will take some convincing before they get back into ibm 's stock in a big way . steve milunovich , a securities analyst at first boston , said that while investors were looking for an excuse 0 to buy ibm shares a year ago , even the big institutional investors are looking for a reason 0 to avoid the stock these days .