private industry 's labor costs rose 1.2 % in the third quarter , matching the second-quarter pace , as health insurance costs continued to soar , the labor department said 0 . the increase in wage and benefit costs in the third quarter was greater than the 1 % rise reported for the third quarter of 1988 . `` wage increases and overall compensation increases are beginning to curl upward a little bit , '' said audrey freedman , a labor economist at the conference board , a business research organization . `` one would have thought 0 this would have happened two or three years ago as the labor market tightened . it is a considerably delayed reaction and it 's not a severe one at all , '' she added . the new data underscored the severity of the nation 's health-care cost problem . in the 12 months ended in september , wages and salaries of private-sector workers rose 4.4 % , while health insurance costs spurted by 13.7 % . the consumer price index climbed 4.3 % in the same period . despite the big increases in health-care costs , wages still account for a far greater share of overall labor costs . the overall private-sector employment cost index , which includes both wages and benefits , rose 4.7 % in the 12 months ended in september , compared with 4.5 % for both the 12 months ended in june and the 12 months ended september 1988 . labor costs are climbing at a far more rapid pace in the health care industry than in other industries . for instance , wages of private-sector hospital workers leaped 6.6 % in the 12 months ended in september , compared with 4.4 % for workers in all industries . in the third quarter , wages and salaries in all private industry rose 1.2 % , compared with 1 % increases in both the second quarter and in the third quarter of 1988 . for the past five years , unions have n't managed to win wage increases as large as those granted to nonunion workers . for private-sector union workers , the cost of wages and benefits rose 0.9 % in the third quarter . for nonunion workers , the costs rose 1.4 % . labor costs continued to rise more rapidly in service industries than in goods-producing industries , the report showed 0 . it also found them rising much more in the northeast than elsewhere . including employees of state and local -- but not the federal -- governments , the employment cost index rose 1.6 % in the third quarter , compared with a 1.3 % rise in the same quarter in 1988 . the index rose 1.1 % in the second quarter . for the 12 months ended in september , this index was up 5.1 % . it rose 4.8 % for the 12 months ended in june and 4.7 % in the 12 months ended in september 1988 . unlike most economic indicators , none of these figures are adjusted for seasonal variations .