treasury secretary nicholas brady said that congress should grant the securities and exchange commission the power to close the stock markets in periods of crisis . in testimony to the senate securities subcommittee , mr. brady disputed the view of sec chairman richard breeden , who told a house panel wednesday that he does n't want the ability to halt the markets . mr. breeden contended that discretionary power could have an impact on the markets if rumors were to circulate about when the exchanges might be closed . he added that the president already has the power to close the markets in an emergency . but mr. brady argued that the sec is closer to the markets and in a better position 0 to understand when the exchanges are under such stress that they should be closed . separately , mr. brady said 0 he asked the working group on financial markets to determine whether futures margins are too low . he noted that some minimum margin requirements have been reduced to levels below those before the 1987 crash . `` this raises questions whether futures and equity margin requirements are consistent at these levels and whether futures margins are adequate , '' mr. brady said . margins are the amount of money 0 an investor needs to put up to buy or sell a futures contract . margins on the futures exchanges typically are raised and lowered according to market volatility . the chicago mercantile exchange margins for the standard & poor 's 500 stock-index futures stood at $ 10,000 a contract for speculators and $ 5,000 for hedgers before oct. 16 , 1987 ; that day the hedging margin was raised to $ 7,500 . margins were raised or lowered about a dozen times since the crash oct. 19 , 1987 . currently , they stand at $ 12,000 for speculators , who are typically individuals and non-member traders , and $ 6,000 for hedgers , which are usually institutions and have offsetting positions in the underlying stocks . mr. brady also said 0 he expects the leveraged buy-out phenomenon to `` end under -lrb- its -rrb- own weight . '' asked whether there is anything 0 congress should do to curb the lbo boom , mr. brady responded , `` i think 0 the lbo phenomenon , -lrb- while -rrb- it wo n't stop completely , will be a thing of the past . '' before taking any action , he advised the panel to `` see what the market has produced as a cure . '' mr. brady also agreed with senators ' concerns about recent stock-market volatility , and said 0 he realizes that the gyrations are scaring investors from investing in stocks . but he added that individuals still are participating in the equity market indirectly through mutual funds and pension funds . the former wall street executive refused to offer an opinion on the controversy surrounding program trading , which has recently become a larger part of the trading in the market and has been blamed for accelerating the drop two weeks ago . `` i do not have a view of whether we should do anything about program trading at this time , '' he said . but mr. brady endorsed the market-revision bill that both houses of congress will try to push through this session . that bill , proposed by the sec last year , would require brokerage firms to disclose the financial positions of their holding companies , mandate large traders ' reporting of program or block trades , and improve clearing and settlement of trades between the futures and stock markets . the bill also would give the sec the power to close the markets , a discretion that former sec chairman david ruder wanted but mr. breeden does n't . mr. brady and senators agreed to have their staffs meet within the next week to start fine-tuning the bill .