the national aeronautics and space administration said 0 a computer virus has infected one of its networks and is spreading anti-nuclear messages related to its galileo space probe , which is to be launched today . charles redmond , a nasa spokesman , said 0 the agency discovered the virus on monday on the collection of computer networks collectively called internet and expected 100 university centers to be infected by today . although the network is n't connected to the computer systems that operate either galileo or the shuttle , part of the network will carry analyses of galileo data once the craft gets spaceborn . mr. redmond said 0 the intruder had n't yet done any harm but the agency feared 0 `` garbage data could be substituted for real data . '' he estimated 0 it could take a day for a computer security manager to expunge the virus from a computer system . the intruder , among the broadest yet 0 to hit a research network , appeared to affect only digital equipment corp. hardware that uses digital 's vax\/vms operating system . it is unrelated to the much-publicized virus that last year infected arpanet , a much larger network used by researchers at universities , laboratories and government agencies around the world . in the lingo of computer security , the nasa intruder is technically a computer worm , mr. redmond said 0 . a worm resides in the operating system of a computer and spreads by boring into other computers contacted through networks . the galileo worm apparently was hatched on a computer in france hooked up to nasa 's space physics analysis network , mr. redmond said 0 . nasa said 0 the galileo worm had n't affected its computers or the computers of other government agencies because they had modified their systems to reject worms . but mr. redmond said 0 the worm hit universities that had n't elected to make the changes . michael alexander , a senior editor at computerworld , a trade publication , said 0 he was told that the worm gets into a computer center by looking for obvious passwords -- such as ones that are the same as the user 's name . if it finds one and gets into the system , it will display a screen when a user logs on that says , `` worms against nuclear killers ... . you talk of times of peace for all , and then prepare for war . '' in addition , mr. alexander said 0 , the worm sends strange messages to other machines at the center -- such as , `` george orwell was an optimist , '' or `` do n't feed the bats tonight . '' the worm also looks for elementary passwords that confer more privileges on the user . the passwords are included in the system software when it is installed but are supposed to be replaced as soon as the system is up and running . if it finds one of those passwords , mr. alexander said 0 , the worm will do such things as change users ' passwords to a series of random numbers , preventing them from signing on to the network . nasa estimated that , on monday , about four computer centers were affected . yesterday , the number grew to 40 ; today the number is expected to grow to 100 . nasa said 0 it will take about a week before it knows exactly how many centers of the 6,000 connected to internet were affected and the extent of the damage , if any . anti-nuclear activists have protested the launch of the galileo space probe to jupiter because it uses plutonium to generate the electricity needed to run the craft . activists fear that if the shuttle carrying galileo into orbit should explode , or if galileo itself crashes into the earth during the two times 0 it flies close to the planet , fatal levels of plutonium would be released into the atmosphere . so far galileo has been delayed twice , once because of a computer malfunction connected with a space-shuttle engine , and yesterday because of the weather . nasa said 0 the galileo worm had nothing 0 to do with either delay . mr. alexander of computerworld said 0 hackers have gone after span before . he said 0 the chaos computer club , of west germany , once managed to invade span and do such things as 0 change the value of pi , messing up some calculations .