some u.s. allies are complaining that president bush is pushing conventional-arms talks too quickly , creating a risk that negotiators will make errors that could affect the security of western europe for years . concerns about the pace of the vienna talks -- which are aimed at the destruction of some 100,000 weapons , as well as major reductions and realignments of troops in central europe -- also are being registered at the pentagon . mr. bush has called for an agreement by next september at the latest . but some american defense officials believe 0 the north atlantic treaty organization should take more time to examine the long-term implications of the options being considered . for one thing , pentagon officials , who asked not to be identified , worry that the u.s. will have a much tougher time persuading europeans to keep some short-range nuclear weapons on their soil once soviet armored forces are thinned out . at the same time , they contend that a reduction of nato forces under a treaty will increase the possibility of a conventional soviet attack unless the west retains a residual force of nuclear weapons in europe . allies concerned about the deadline include the british , french and smaller nato allies , some of whom do n't have adequate staffs 0 to provide quick answers to the questions being raised by what generally are considered the most complex arms-control talks ever attempted . so far , no ally has complained openly , preserving the impression that nato is in line with the bush position that a quick agreement bringing soviet conventional forces down to parity with nato is the west 's top bargaining priority . but even though nato negotiators have only 10 months left under the bush timetable , they are still wrestling over such seemingly fundamental questions as `` what is a tank ? '' five of the six categories of weapons under negotiation have n't even been defined . tanks currently are defined as armored vehicles weighing 25 tons or more that carry large guns . the soviets complicated the issue by offering to include light tanks , which are as light as 10 tons . oleg a. grinevsky , the chief soviet negotiator in the conventional-arms talks , argued that this would mean 0 the soviets would have to destroy some 1,800 tanks , while the u.s. would lose none because it has no light tanks in europe . but the issue is stickier than it seems . france , britain and italy all have light tanks 0 they would like to keep out of the talks . and some u.s. army analysts worry that the proposed soviet redefinition is aimed at blocking the u.s. from developing lighter , more transportable , high-technology tanks . defining combat aircraft is even tougher . the soviets insisted that aircraft be brought into the talks , then argued for exempting some 4,000 russian planes because they are `` solely defensive . '' nato has n't budged from its insistence that any gun-carrying plane has offensive capability . the dispute over that issue , according to one u.s. official , is a `` potential treaty stopper , '' and only president bush and soviet leader mikhail gorbachev may be able to resolve it . accounting problems raise more knotty issues . greece and turkey , for example , are suspected of overstating their arsenals in hopes that they can emerge from the arms-reduction treaty with large remaining forces 0 to deter each other . other nations are n't sure how many weapons they have in their own arsenals . `` it 's just going to be sloppy , both on our side and theirs -lcb- the warsaw pact 's -rcb- , '' says one nato analyst . so far , neither the bush administration nor arms-control experts in congress seem moved by arguments that these problems may take more time 0 to thrash out than president bush has allowed . they argue that the bigger danger would be that the west would delay action so long that the soviets might back away from the current conciliatory attitude . `` so what if you miss 50 tanks somewhere ? '' asks rep. norman dicks -lrb- d. , wash. -rrb- , a member of the house group that visited the talks in vienna . `` the bottom line is that if we can get that -lcb- warsaw pact -rcb- superiority brought down to parity , we ought to keep pressing ahead as quickly as possible . i worry more about things becoming so unraveled on the other side that they might become unable to negotiate .