britain 's blue arrow plc intends to change its name to manpower plc and write off a chunk of the nearly $ 1.2 billion in good will realized in the takeover of u.s.-based manpower inc . blue arrow chairman mitchell fromstein said in an interview that the two steps may be a prelude to reincorporating the world 's biggest employment-services group in the u.s. . mr. fromstein disclosed the planned steps , expected within a few months , as blue arrow posted a 2.5 % drop in its third-quarter pretax earnings . the name change and good will write-off could help solidify blue arrow 's dominance of the u.s. temporary-help market and give it a more american image as u.s. investors turn jittery about foreign stocks after friday 's market plunge . u.s. holders now own more than 60 % of blue arrow compared with 9 % last january . `` in the u.s. market , the recognition of the manpower name is infinitely stronger than blue arrow , '' mr. fromstein said . the moves also could erase shareholders ' perception of blue arrow as a company in turmoil . `` it further reinforces the concept that blue arrow is a thing of the past , '' said doug arthur , an analyst at kidder peabody & co. in new york . the proposed changes `` all make a lot of sense to me , '' he added 0 . in a widely publicized boardroom coup , mr. fromstein ousted antony berry as blue arrow chief executive in january , a month after mr. berry had forced mr. fromstein out as the $ 1 million-a-year chief of milwaukee-based manpower . mr. fromstein solidified his control in april by taking over from mr. berry as chairman . but the blue arrow tumult is n't over yet , as the british government is investigating a disputed # 25 million -lrb- $ 39.4 million -rrb- loan which mr. fromstein has said 0 was made under mr. berry 's direction . blue arrow was able to pull off the $ 1.34 billion takeover of manpower in 1987 largely because different british and american accounting standards produce higher reported earnings for british companies . under british rules , blue arrow was able to write off at once the $ 1.15 billion in good will arising from the purchase . as a u.s.-based company , blue arrow would have to amortize the good will over as many as 40 years , creating a continuing drag on reported earnings . good will is the excess of cost of an acquired firm , operating unit or assets over the current or fair market value of those assets . but with so many shares now held in the u.s. , blue arrow reports its earnings two ways , based on both u.k. and u.s. accounting standards . `` our balance sheets look like they came from alice 's wonderland , '' mr. fromstein said . the british version shows `` a handful of pounds of net worth '' following the 1987 write-off of good will , while the american version reflects `` $ 1 billion of net worth because almost none of -lcb- the good will -rcb- has been written off . '' mr. fromstein said 0 he hopes to eradicate some of the good will left on blue arrow 's u.s. books in one fell swoop , but would n't specify how much . people close to blue arrow suggested 0 the write-down would represent a sizable chunk , with executives claiming 0 prior management overstated the extent of manpower 's good will . that move , along with the return to the manpower name , could bolster the company 's prospects during possibly difficult times for temporary help . the number of u.s. temporary workers fell about 1 % in the 12 months ending aug. 31 , after sliding nearly 3.5 % in july , said 0 kidder peabody 's mr. arthur . blue arrow blamed the pretax profit drop in the quarter ended july 31 partly on slower earnings growth of non-manpower units in britain . overall , pretax profit slid to # 18.49 million in the quarter from # 18.98 million a year earlier .