probably the most clear-cut soviet violation , for example , is the krasnoyarsk radar . -- `` arms control reality , '' nov. 20 , 1984 , the first of some 20 journal editorials saying that krasnoyarsk violated the abm treaty . -- `` whether the installation is for early warning or space track , it clearly is not deployed , '' the lawmakers said . `` thus we judge it to be not a violation of the abm treaty at this time . '' the delegation included a reporter from the new york times , aides to sen. edward m. kennedy and rep. les aucoin , and natural resources defense council staff members . -- the washington post , sept. 9 , 1987 . -- the u.s.s.r. has taken unprecedented unilateral measures of openness , by giving american representatives a possibility to inspect the building site of the krasnoyarsk radar as well as radar vans in the areas of gomel and moscow , so as to see for themselves that there are no violations of the abm treaty of 1972 on the part of the soviet union . -- letter from eduard shevardnadze to u.n. secretary-general perez de cuellar , reported in tass , june 10 , 1988 . -- the construction of this station equal in size to the egyptian pyramids constituted , i say it 0 directly , a clear violation of abm . -- eduard shevardnadze , oct. 23 , 1989 . we 're happy , we guess , to receive confirmation of the krasnoyarsk violation from the soviets , five years after we started writing about it . perhaps even the american apologists will now accede . without question , something intriguing is going on in the policy chambers of the politburo . as it bids for new agreements , new loans and indeed admission to the civilized world , the soviet government has recognized 0 it has a credibility problem . so after 70 years , it is confessing the obvious , hoping to be believed about other things . it 's not enough . if the soviets want to be believed , they need to start telling the truth about more than the totally obvious . our own test of `` glasnost 's '' authenticity would be a soviet decision to open itself to a complete international examination of one of the most troubling mysteries in u.s.-soviet relations -- the reported 1979 anthrax outbreak at a soviet military facility in sverdlovsk . the u.s. government has never waivered in its assessment of this incident as an accident at a biological weapons facility there , and hence a violation of the 1972 biological weapons convention . the pentagon 's recently issued `` soviet military power , '' though in general adopting a softer line , repeated the sverdlovsk assessment . it also was detailed in congressional testimony this past february : an explosion at the microbiology and virology institute in sverdlovsk released anthrax germs that caused a significant number of deaths . since mr. shevardnadze did not address this topic before the supreme soviet , the soviet union 's official position remains that the anthrax deaths were caused by tainted meat . we doubt this claim just as we doubted mr. shevardnadze 's assurance last year that krasnoyarsk did n't violate the abm treaty . and just as we did not believe the tendentious claims of the congressmen and arms-control advocates who visited krasnoyarsk , we are in no way persuaded by the assent to the tainted-meat theory by a u.s. team of scientists who met with soviet counterparts in washington last year . the soviets ' explanation is that the anthrax came from one lot of animal feed made from the bones of cattle that grazed on soil that was naturally infected with anthrax spores . harvard 's matthew meselson -- who we read 0 has sold something called the `` scientific community '' on the notion that `` yellow rain '' attacks on the laotian hmong were in fact the result of fecal showers by giant bees -- found the soviet anthrax scenario `` completely plausible . '' we do n't believe it . and we certainly do not believe that mr. gorbachev or any of his emissaries yet deserve to have the west take their word for it . sverdlovsk is a large gray cloud over glasnost and indeed over the legitimacy of the arms-control process itself . the u.s. government 's sverdlovsk complaint , as with krasnoyarsk , is no mere political posturing . biological weapons violations have figured little in political debate , and indeed have not been pressed vigorously enough by the u.s. government . but the stated u.s. position is detailed and specific , and the prospect of biological warfare is profoundly chilling . the soviets should be willing to set in motion a process that would allow them to acknowledge that sverdlovsk violated the 1972 agreement or , alternatively , that would give u.s. specialists reasonable confidence that this was a wholly civilian accident . until that happens , glasnost can not begin to deserve the kind of credibility 0 mr. shevardnadze was bidding for with his confessions on monday .