put down that phone . walk around the room ; take two deep breaths . resist the urge to call your broker and sell all your stocks . that 's the advice of most investment professionals after friday 's 190-point drop in the dow jones industrial average . no one can say for sure what will happen today . and investment pros are divided on whether stocks will perform well or badly in the next six months . but they 're nearly unanimous on one point : do n't sell into a panic . investors who sold everything after the crash of 1987 lived to regret it . even after friday 's plunge , the dow jones industrial average was 48 % above where it landed on oct. 19 two years ago . panic selling also was unwise during other big declines in the past . the crash of 1929 was followed by a substantial recovery before the great depression and awful bear market of the 1930s began . the `` october massacres '' of 1978 and 1979 were scary , but did n't lead to severe or sustained downturns . indeed , some pros see friday 's plunge , plus any further damage that might occur early this week , as a chance for bargain hunting . `` there has been a lot of emotional selling that presents a nice buying opportunity if you 've got the cash , '' says stephen b. timbers , chief investment officer of chicago-based kemper financial services inc . but most advisers think 0 the immediate course for individual investors should be to stand pat . `` when you see a runaway train , '' says steve janachowski , partner in the san francisco investment advisory firm brouwer & janachowski , `` you wait for the train to stop . '' even for people who expect a bear market in coming months -- and a sizable number of money managers and market pundits do -- the advice is : wait for the market to bounce back , and sell shares gradually during rallies . the best thing 0 individual investors can do is `` just sit tight , '' says marshall b. front , executive vice president and head of investment counseling at stein roe & farnham inc. , a chicago-based investment counseling firm that manages about $ 18 billion . on the one hand , mr. front says 0 , it would be misguided to sell into `` a classic panic . '' on the other hand , it 's not necessarily a good time 0 to jump in and buy . `` this is all emotion right now , and when emotion starts to run , it can run further than anyone anticipates , '' he said . `` so it 's more prudent to wait and see how things stabilize . '' roger ibbotson , professor of finance at yale university and head of the market information firm ibbotson associates inc. , says , `` my real advice would be to just ride through it . generally , it is n't wise to be in and out '' of the stock market . mr. ibbotson thinks that this week is `` going to be a roller-coaster week . '' but he also thinks 0 it is `` a good week 0 to consider buying . '' john snyder , former president of the los angeles chapter of the national association of investors corp. , an organization of investment clubs and individual investors , says 0 his fellow club members did n't sell in the crash of 1987 , and see no reason 0 to sell now . `` we 're dedicated long-term investors , not traders , '' he says . `` we understand panics and euphoria . and we hope to take advantage of panics and buy stocks when they plunge . '' one camp of investment pros sees what happened friday as an opportunity . over the next days and weeks , they say 0 , investors should look for stocks 0 to buy . friday 's action `` was an old-fashioned panic , '' says 0 alfred goldman , director of technical market analysis for a.g. edwards & sons in st. louis . `` stocks were being thrown out of windows at any price . '' his advice : `` you ought to be there with a basket catching them . '' james craig , portfolio manager for the denver-based janus fund , which has one of the industry 's better track records , started his buying during friday 's plunge . stocks such as hershey foods corp. , wal-mart stores inc. , american international group inc. and federal national mortgage association became such bargains that he could n't resist them , he says 0 . and mr. craig expects to pick up more shares today . `` it will be chaotic at first , but i would not be buying if i thought 0 we were headed for real trouble , '' he says . he argues that stocks are reasonably valued now , and that interest rates are lower now than in the fall of 1987 . mr. front of stein roe suggests that any buying should `` concentrate in stocks that have lagged the market on the up side , or stocks that have been beaten down a lot more than the market in this correction . '' his firm favors selected computer , drug and pollution-control stocks . other investment pros are more pessimistic . they say 0 investors should sell stocks -- but not necessarily right away . many of them stress that the selling can be orderly , gradual , and done when stock prices are rallying . on thursday , william fleckenstein , a seattle money manager , used futures contracts in his personal account to place a bet that the broad market averages would decline . he thinks 0 the underlying inflation rate is around 5 % to 6 % , far higher than most people suppose . in the pension accounts 0 he manages , mr. fleckenstein has raised cash positions and invested in gold and natural gas stocks , partly as an inflation hedge . he thinks 0 government officials are terrified to let a recession start when government , corporate and personal debt levels are so high . so he thinks 0 the government will err on the side of rekindled inflation . as a result , mr. fleckenstein says 0 , `` i think 0 the ball game 's over , '' and investors are about to face a bear market . david m. jones , vice president at aubrey g. lanston & co. , recommends treasury securities -lrb- of up to five years ' maturity -rrb- . he says 0 the oct. 6 employment report , showing slower economic growth and a severe weakening in the manufacturing sector , is a warning sign to investors . one strategy for investors who want to stay in but hedge their bets is to buy `` put '' options , either on the individual stocks 0 they own or on a broad market index . a put option gives its holder the right -lrb- but not the obligation -rrb- to sell a stock -lrb- or stock index -rrb- for a specified price -lrb- the strike price -rrb- until the option expires . whether this insurance is worthwhile depends on the cost of an option . the cost , or premium , tends to get fat in times of crisis . thus , buying puts after a big market slide can be an expensive way 0 to hedge against risk . the prices of puts generally did n't soar friday . for example , the premium as a percentage of the stock price for certain puts on eli lilly & co. moved up from 3 % at thursday 's close to only 3.3 % at friday 's close , even though the shares dropped more than $ 5.50 . but put-option prices may zoom when trading resumes today . it 's hard to generalize about a reasonable price for puts . but investors should keep in mind , before paying too much , that the average annual return for stock holdings , long-term , is 9 % to 10 % a year ; a return of 15 % is considered praiseworthy . paying , say , 10 % for insurance against losses takes a deep bite out of the return . james a. white and tom herman contributed to this article .