if this battle were a movie , the producers would be fighting over two scripts with nothing but an opening scene in common . in the opener , sony corp. would agree to buy columbia pictures entertainment inc. in a transaction valued at close to $ 5 billion . shortly after that , sony would offer to buy guber-peters entertainment co. for $ 200 million and offer its co-chairmen , peter guber and jon peters , the chance to run columbia . mr. peters would fly to new york with the intention of telling warner communications inc. chairman steven j. ross that guber-peters planned to end its five-year contract to produce movies exclusively for warner . that 's where the two scripts would diverge . in affidavits filed in los angeles superior court in connection with the $ 1 billion breach-of-contract suit 0 warner brought against sony for hiring the two producers , mr. guber and mr. peters tell one story . warner tells another . in the affidavits , mr. peters says 0 he was `` shocked '' when mr. ross refused a meeting and made it clear 0 he would stop them . mr. peters claims 0 he reminded mr. ross that robert daly and terry semel , the top executives of the warner brothers studio , had `` repeatedly agreed that we had every right to accept '' an offer such as sony 's . in response , mr. peters says 0 , mr. ross referred to his colleagues at warner with an `` obscenity '' and said : `` tell them that they do n't have a job . you can take them with you . '' warner denies 0 mr. ross ever said any such thing , and , in fact , denies virtually everything 0 mr. guber and mr. peters say in their affidavits . tomorrow , warner will file another batch of documents contending that `` the essence of everything 0 these guys are saying is basically lies , '' says 0 warner 's chief outside counsel , stuart rabinowitz . thursday , a judge is scheduled to rule on warner 's motion seeking to block the guber-peters duo from going to columbia . the battery of legal documents filed in the past week in connection with the suit provide a peek into the inner workings of this hollywood dogfight . but they also make it clear that the first thing 0 a judge will have to decide is which , if any , version of events in this morass is fiction , and which fact . the matter may never even be tried in court . warner says that what it really wants is for the producers to fulfill their contractual obligations , but the bitterness of this battle and the accusations flying on both sides make it unlikely that the decade-long relationship between warner and its two most prolific producers can ever be repaired . warner , which is in the process of merging with time warner inc. , says 0 it is willing to settle the matter out of court . so far , however , sony has n't been willing to meet its considerable financial demands . mr. guber and mr. peters do n't have much 0 to gain from a protracted battle . sony , for its part , could decide that the cost of a warner settlement or court fight is too high , choosing instead to find someone else 0 to run columbia , although that too would be costly given the financial arrangement already guaranteed to mr. guber and mr. peters . in that case , mr. guber and mr. peters might not suffer financially , but they would be left without their dream job of running a studio and with a considerably scarred relationship with warner . at the center of any court fight will be the differing interpretations of the written contract between warner and the two producers , but other murkier issues will play a big role . sony and the guber-peters team are hanging much of their case on warner 's willingness last year to release the producers from another contract and on an oral agreement 0 they say 0 allowed them to terminate the current written contract if the opportunity to run a major studio came up . warner denies 0 such an agreement was made , and disputes the guber-peters version of virtually every telephone call and meeting 0 the two sides had on the matter . just how rancorous the relationship has become is clear from the differing versions of the two sides ' current business dealings . mr. guber and mr. peters say in their affidavits that warner already is taking steps to freeze them out of their projects at warner , notably the sylvester stallone film `` tango and cash . '' mr. peters says in his affidavit that the movie 's staff was told last week that warner was `` taking over '' the picture , and 0 another producer would be giving all of the orders . over his objections , mr. peters says 0 , the film 's release date was moved up `` by many months '' to december , and plans for a soundtrack `` worth millions of dollars '' were dropped . hubert de la bouillaire , an editor on the film , backs mr. peters in a separate sworn declaration . mr. de la bouillaire says 0 warner brothers production president mark canton called him oct. 19 and said 0 mr. peters is `` off the picture . if he calls you up , just tell him 0 everything is fine . '' the editor also says 0 the new producer on the film , bruce baird , told editors to screen the picture without telling stars sylvester stallone and kurt russell or mr. peters . `` the less they know , the easier it is for us . if someone asks , just lie and tell them 0 it will be done , '' mr. de la bouillaire says 0 mr. baird told them . that , says 0 warner 's mr. rabinowitz , is `` a total 100 % lie . '' the movie , he says 0 , is in its post-production stages of `` cleaning up the film . '' he says 0 mr. peters and mr. guber , as the contractual producers with consultation rights , have been invited to screenings and to give their input on the film . dozens of guber-peters staffers are still working on the warner lot and consulting on various projects on a `` daily basis , '' the attorney says 0 . mr. guber , in his affidavit , says that when he advised warner president terry semel of the sony offer at lunch on sept. 25 , mr. semel `` hugged and congratulated me , and expressed joy that we had finally realized our long-term ambition of running and having an equity position in a major entertainment company . '' mr. guber says 0 he brought to lunch a release document 0 warner had agreed to in 1988 , when he and mr. peters made an aborted bid to buy part of mgm\/ua entertainment co. to run the mgm studio . mr. guber says 0 he had crossed out `` mgm '' with a red pen and written in `` columbia , '' giving the document to mr. semel . `` mr. semel said absolutely nothing 0 to indicate 0 warner would have any objection to our assuming management positions at columbia , '' mr. guber says . mr. semel , in his affidavit , does n't mention any hugging or congratulating . he says 0 he told mr. guber 0 he could n't sign any documents and that `` the deal , although apparently a good one for him and mr. peters , would have a very negative impact on warner . '' he said 0 he would contact mr. ross and warner brothers chairman robert daly and that , in a conference call , the three agreed 0 they could n't let the producers out of their contract . mr. ross , in his own affidavit , says 0 he and mr. daly instructed mr. semel to tell the producers 0 warner would n't terminate their agreement . mr. guber says that mr. semel did convey that information and that mr. semel said 0 mr. ross was `` crazy because of the time deal , '' meaning , mr. guber says , that mr. ross `` did not want to communicate to his new merger partner , time inc. , that warner 's agreements provided for our departure under these circumstances . '' mr. guber also says in his affidavit that mr. daly `` told us that even if sony did not want us , warner 's relationship with us already was irreparably damaged , that there was no way ` 0 to put the egg together , ' and that it would sue sony for tons of money . '' moreover , mr. guber claims 0 , mr. semel told him that mr. ross probably would n't object `` if it were anybody other than sony . but sony is a problem . '' the guber-peters side has said 0 warner is particularly concerned about the prospect of a huge japanese company controlling important segments of the u.s. entertainment business . some in hollywood suggest 0 mr. guber and mr. peters took encouragement from warner studio executives such as mr. semel and mr. canton too literally . according to this theory , warner executives , hoping to strengthen their relationships with the producers , encouraged mr. guber and mr. peters in their ambitions to build a major entertainment company . but the warner executives in their affidavits deny ever telling the producers 0 they could get out of their written contract . mr. rabinowitz , the warner attorney , says 0 the studio still wants the producers to come back and fulfill their contract . `` they are like a mini-studio ; they have 50 projects in development for warner , '' he says . but mr. guber indicates in his affidavit that not all of the projects will be used . for example , he says that since 1985 , he and mr. peters have developed over 85 movie projects , and warner has `` passed '' or chosen not to produce at least 76 . as for the projects remaining at warner , mr. guber says 0 , `` mr. semel informed me that warner 's producers have already started a ` feeding frenzy ' for our projects .