i read the exerpts of wayne angell 's exchange with a gosbank representative -lrb- `` put the soviet economy on golden rails , '' editorial page , oct. 5 -rrb- with great interest , since the gold standard is one of my areas of research . mr. angell is incorrect when he states that the soviet union 's large gold reserves would give it `` great power to establish credibility . '' during the latter part of the 19th century , russia was on a gold standard and had gold reserves representing more than 100 % of its outstanding currency , but no one outside russia used rubles . the bank of england , on the other hand , had gold reserves that averaged about 30 % of its outstanding currency , and bank of england notes were accepted throughout the world . the most likely reason for this disparity is that the bank of england was a private bank with substantial earning assets , and the common-law rights of creditors to collect claims against the bank were well established in britain . by contrast , in 19th-century russia an authoritarian government owned the bank and had the power to revoke payment whenever it chose , much as it would in today 's soviet union . the success of the british gold standard was due to independent private banking and common law , rather than the choice of gold for valuing the currency . it is no coincidence that from 1844 to 1914 , when the bank of england was an independent private bank , the pound was never devalued and payment of gold for pound notes was never suspended , but with the subsequent nationalization of the bank of england , the pound was devalued with increasing frequency and its use as an international medium of exchange declined . the soviet union should keep these lessons in mind as it seeks to establish the ruble as an international currency . one way 0 to make the ruble into a major international currency would be to leave reserves of gold and earning assets in a swiss bank with distributions based on swiss laws . unless the laws determining the noteholder 's rights to payment are independent of the issuer of those notes , however , a gold-based ruble would be as unsuccessful for the soviets as it was for the czars . christopher r. petruzzi professor of taxation california state university fullerton , calif .