price wars between the fast-food giants are starting to clobber the fast-food little guys : the franchisees . `` when elephants start fighting , ants get killed , '' says murray riese , co-owner of national restaurants , a new york franchisee for pizza hut , roy rogers and other chains . as hamburger and pizza outlets saturate one area after another , franchisers are struggling desperately for market share , slashing prices and stepping up costly promotions . the fight is putting a tight squeeze on profits of many , threatening to drive the smallest ones out of business and straining relations between the national fast-food chains and their franchisees . the chains `` used to offer discounts during winter when business was slow , but in the last year or so , discounting has become a 12-month thing , '' says 0 donald harty , president of charisma group inc. , a new york franchisee of grand metropolitan plc 's burger king chain . though charisma 's sales are up slightly this year , mr. harty says 0 profits will be flat or lower . and bill konopnicki , a safford , ariz. , licensee of mcdonald 's corp. who is chairman of the company 's national operators advisory board , says 0 some fast-food outlets `` could be in serious trouble , based on the amount of discounting that seems to be going on . '' until recently , the huge fast-food industry , with sales of about $ 60.1 billion last year , kept price-skirmishing to a minimum . but early this year , pepsico inc. 's taco bell unit and wendy 's international inc. slashed prices and stepped up promotions , says 0 john rohs , an analyst for wertheim schroder & co . that brought a chain reaction in the industry . the situation was further aggravated early this month , when mcdonald 's set plans to heat up the discounting by offering coupons . it also decided to go national with pizza , which it has been test-marketing . now , two-for-one deals on pizza are common ; so are 99-cent specials on sandwiches normally priced twice as high . the discounting , say 0 fast-food operators , occurs on a scale and with a frequency 0 they have n't seen before . the result is that some franchisees are running hard just to stay even , laying off middle managers and working harder to make less . joe mack , a district manager for cormack enterprises inc. , a burger king operator in omaha , neb. , says 0 discounting is so prevalent that `` we have to serve 15 % to 20 % more customers '' to keep sales level . `` it 's almost as if you 're doing extra work to give away the food , '' he says . alan d'agosto , president of panda 's inc. , an operator of arby 's restaurants in omaha , says : `` all 0 we 're doing is keeping the customers coming , but we are n't increasing sales . '' with fast-food outlets on every corner , he , like many , does n't think 0 he has a choice in the price war : `` our customers say that they wo n't go into a fast-food store unless they get a coupon . '' if the battle continues much longer , many fast-food businesses will close or merge , predicts 0 vincent morrissey , who owns a string of kentucky fried chicken stores in the midwest . `` the industry is overbuilt , '' he says . `` fast-food franchisers have managed to squeeze in stores into every corner available . '' the national restaurant association says 0 quick-service restaurant units in the u.s. rose 14 % to 131,146 between 1983 and 1987 , the last year for which figures are available . with the market so crowded , says 0 a spokesman for wendy 's in columbus , ohio , `` if you 're doing well , you 're doing well at someone else 's expense . '' simply put , there is n't enough business for every store to grow . according to mr. rohs , inflation-adjusted , same-store sales at company-owned wendy 's units in the u.s. have trailed year-earlier levels throughout 1989 , except for august . `` mcdonald 's has also been running negative all year , '' the analyst says . spokesmen for wendy 's and mcdonald 's criticized mr. rohs 's calculations . jack greenberg , executive vice president and chief financial officer of mcdonald 's , says 0 the company does n't compute , much less disclose , inflation-adjusted , same-store sales . he adds that short-term comparisons `` can be very misleading because of differences in timing of marketing programs from year to year . '' profit margins at company-owned mcdonald 's outlets in the u.s. `` are holding up quite nicely , '' says mr. greenberg . profits of franchisees have n't been higher since the mid-1970s , he adds 0 . but mr. greenberg 's sanguine outlook is n't matched by many fast-food industry observers . smaller chains and single-store operators will be the first 0 to fail , many in the industry predict 0 . big franchise groups `` can ride out the storm a lot longer , '' says mr. harty , the burger king operator in new york . the prolonged price pressures are driving a wedge between some franchisers and their franchisees . mr. morrissey , the kentucky fried chicken franchisee , notes that most franchise owners must absorb increases in expenses without any cut in the royalties , or portion of sales , that they must pay franchisers . franchisees ca n't be forced to go along with a franchiser 's discounting . but once a franchisee agrees to a promotional program , the franchiser can demand full participation to the very end , says 0 lew rudnick , a principal of rudnick & wolfe , a chicago law firm with franchise industry clients . he says 0 courts have held that antitrust considerations are outweighed in such cases by the need to protect consumers from deceptive marketing . in any case , many franchisees , in order to stay on good terms with franchisers , routinely go along with promotions . says mr. riese of national restaurants : `` if you resisted on prices , maybe you would never get that telephone call about a new franchise .