for years , a strict regimen governed the staff meetings at nissan motor co. 's technical center in tokyo 's western suburbs . employees wore identification badges listing not only their names but also their dates of hire . no one could voice an opinion until everybody with more seniority had spoken first , so younger employees -- often the most enthusiastic and innovative -- seldom spoke up at all . but in 1986 , the badges and the `` do n't speak out of turn '' rule were abolished -- early steps in a cultural revolution still rolling on with all the subtlety of a freight train . in recent years , nissan has instituted flex-time work schedules and allowed employees to dress casually , even in blue jeans . a rule forbidding staffers to own competitors ' cars has been lifted , and now many designers drive foreign cars to get useful ideas . nissan 's decades-old corporate song filled with references to mount fuji has been scrapped in favor of a snappy tune sung by a popular japanese vocalist . and in a japanese corporate first , nissan recently opened the first coed company dormitory for single employees at the suburban tokyo technical center . `` we had lots of internal debate about this one , '' concedes tadahiko fukuyama , a senior public-relations official . `` but in the end , top management decided to follow the voice of the younger generation . '' this corporate glasnost is a big reason 0 nissan , after years of making lackluster cars and lousy profits , has loosened up its rigid ways and now is riding a string of hits , ranging from the sleek maxima sedan and porsche-like 300zx to the whimsically nostalgic pao , a minicar sold only in japan . the company 's turnaround is far from complete ; many crucial tests are just beginning . but its surprising progress so far holds important lessons for companies in trouble . the big one : a company 's culture ca n't be radically changed unless top management first admits that things have gone badly awry and then publicly leads the charge . atsushi muramatsu , nissan 's executive vice president for finance , helped set the tone in december 1986 , when the company was heading toward the first operating loss by a japanese auto maker since the nation 's postwar recovery . `` this is a time of self-criticism 0 to discover what is wrong with us , '' he said . yutaka kume , who took the helm as nissan 's president in june 1985 , added simply , `` i am deeply disappointed . '' no wonder . nissan , japan 's second-largest auto maker and the world 's fourth-largest , was getting beat up not only by its bigger rival , toyota motor corp. , but also by honda motor co. , the most successful japanese car company in the u.s. but a relative pipsqueak in japan . nissan 's market share in japan had been dropping year by year since the beginning of the decade . its u.s. sales sagged , partly because of price increases due to the rising yen . worst of all , nissan was preoccupied with management infighting , cronyism and corporate rigidity . consider the experience of satoko kitada , a 30-year-old designer of vehicle interiors who joined nissan in 1982 . at that time , tasks were assigned strictly on the basis of seniority . `` the oldest designer got to work on the dashboard , '' she recalls . `` the next level down did doors . if a new person got to work on part of the speedometer , that was a big deal . '' this system produced boring , boxy cars that consumers just were n't buying . desperately hoping to spark sales , nissan transferred 5,000 middle managers and plant workers to dealerships . meanwhile , president kume ordered everyone from top executives to rookie designers to go `` town watching , '' to visit chic parts of tokyo to try to gain insights into developing cars for trend-setters . some town-watching excursions were downright comic . one group of middle-aged manufacturing men from the company 's zama plant outside tokyo was supposed to check out a trendy restaurant in the city . but when they arrived at the door , all were afraid to go in , fearing that they would be out of place . other trips were more productive . mr. kume himself visited honda 's headquarters in tokyo 's upscale aoyama district . he liked the well-lighted lobby display of honda 's cars and trucks so much that he had nissan 's gloomy lobby exhibit refurbished . later , nissan borrowed other honda practices , including an engineering `` idea contest '' 0 to promote inventiveness . one engineer developed a `` crab car '' that moves sideways . such sudden cultural shifts may come across as a bit forced , but they seem to be genuine -- so much so , in fact , that some older employees have resisted . nissan handled the die-hards in a typically japanese fashion : they were n't fired but instead `` were neglected , '' says 0 kouji hori , the personnel manager at the nissan technical center . despite the pain of adjusting , the cultural revolution has begun to yield exciting cars . a year ago , the company completely revamped its near-luxury sedan , the $ 17,699 maxima , which competes against a broad range of upscale sedans ; it replaced its boxy , pug-nosed body with sleek , aerodynamic lines . since then , nissan also has launched new versions of the $ 13,249 240sx sporty coupe and 300zx sports car . the restyled 300zx costs as much as $ 33,000 and is squared off against the porche 944 , which begins at $ 41,900 . besides new styling , the new nissans have more powerful engines and more sophisticated suspension systems . all three new models are outselling their predecessors by wide margins . in its home market , nissan has grabbed attention with limited-production minicars featuring styling odd enough to be cute . one is the pao , a tiny coupe with a peelback canvas top and tilted headlights that give it a droopy-eyed look . nissan initially planned to sell just 10,000 paos , but sales have passed 50,000 , and there 's a one-year waiting list for the car . then , there 's the s-cargo , an offbeat delivery van with a snail-like body that inspired its name . nissan helped develop a tokyo restaurant with both vehicles as its design theme . the chairs are s-cargo seats , and a gift shop sells such items as alarm clocks styled like the pao 's oversized speedometer . all these vehicles have sharply improved nissan 's morale and image -- but have n't done much for its market share . nissan had 29 % of the japanese car market in 1980 before beginning a depressing eight-year slide that continued through last year . strong sales so far this year are certain to turn the tide , but even the 25 % market share that nissan expects in 1989 will leave it far below its position at the beginning of the decade . nissan concedes that it wo n't recoup all its market-share losses in japan until at least 1995 , and even that timetable might prove optimistic . `` everyone else is going to catch up '' with nissan 's innovative designs , says 0 a. rama krishna , auto analyst at first boston -lrb- japan -rrb- ltd . nissan 's pace of new-model hits will slow , he adds 0 , just as arch-rival toyota unleashes its own batch of new cars . likewise , in the u.s. , nissan has grabbed 5.2 % of the car market so far this year , up from 4.5 % a year ago . but even that brings nissan only to the share 0 it had in 1987 , and leaves the company behind its high of 5.5 % in 1980 and 1982 . why ? so far , nissan 's new-model successes are mostly specialized vehicles with limited sales potential . in compact and subcompact cars , the bread-and-butter sales generators for japanese auto makers , nissan still trails toyota and honda . nissan hopes that that will start to change this fall , with its new version of the stanza compact sedan . the stanza has been a nonentity compared with honda 's hugely successful accord and toyota 's camry . but this year , honda has revamped the accord and made it a midsized car . nissan instead has kept its new stanza a bit smaller than that and cut the base price 6 % ; at $ 11,450 , stanza prices start $ 749 below the predecessor model yet have a more-powerful engine . accord prices start at $ 12,345 . nissan 's risk is that its low-base-price strategy might get lost amid the highly publicized rebates being offered by detroit 's big three . but `` on a new car , a rebate does n't work well '' because it cheapens the vehicle 's image , contends 0 thomas d. mignanelli , executive vice president of nissan 's u.s. sales arm . even if the new stanza succeeds , nissan will remain behind in the subcompact segment , where its sentra does n't measure up to the honda civic and toyota corolla . nissan will introduce a completely revamped sentra next fall . at the opposite end of the market , nissan launches its luxury infiniti division on nov. 8 -- three years after honda pioneered japanese luxury cars and two months after toyota 's lexus went on sale . nissan started advertising infiniti fully eight months before the cars hit american showrooms . the ads featured fences , rocks and pussy-willow buds -- almost anything but the cars themselves . the ads have generated some laughs but also plenty of attention because they are so unlike any other u.s. auto advertising . on the other hand , nissan 's sales goals for infiniti are modest compared with toyota 's targets for lexus . nissan will build only about 3,500 of the $ 38,000 infiniti q45 sedans each month , sending about 2,000 of them to the u.s. and keeping the rest for sale in japan . toyota wants to sell about 49,000 lexus ls400 sedans next year in the u.s. alone . `` when i saw the lexus sales projections , i got worried , '' confesses takashi oka , who led the infiniti development team . but on reflection , mr. oka says 0 , he concluded that nissan is being prudent in following its slow-startup strategy instead of simply copying lexus . `` infiniti is nissan 's big business move for the 21st century , and we 're in no hurry to generate large profits right away , '' mr. oka says . despite plans to add two new infiniti models next year , bringing the total to four , infiniti wo n't show profits for at least five years , he adds 0 . these days nissan can afford that strategy , even though profits are n't exactly robust . nissan had record net income of 114.63 billion yen -lrb- $ 868 million -rrb- in the fiscal year ended last march 31 , a remarkable recovery from the 20.39 billion yen of two years earlier , when the company lost money on operations . nissan has increased earnings more than market share by cutting costs and by taking advantage of a general surge in japanese car sales . but nissan expects to earn only 120 billion yen in the current fiscal year , a modest increase of 4.7 % . the big reason : for all its cost-cutting , nissan remains less efficient than toyota . in its last fiscal year , nissan 's profit represented just 2.3 % of sales , compared with 4.3 % at toyota . to help close the gap , nissan recently established a top-level cost-cutting committee . nissan is the world 's only auto maker currently building vehicles in all three of the world 's key economic arenas -- the u.s. , japan and europe . that gives it an enviable strategic advantage , at least until its rivals catch up , but also plenty of managerial headaches . for example , nissan 's u.s. operations include 10 separate subsidiaries -- for manufacturing , sales , design , research , etc. -- that report separately back to japan . and in july , nissan 's tennessee manufacturing plant beat back a united auto workers organizing effort with aggressive tactics that have left some workers bitter . `` we are in a transitional phase from being a japanese company to becoming an international company based in japan , '' says mr. muramatsu , the executive vice president . he promises that nissan will soon establish a holding company overseeing all u.s. operations , just as it 's doing in europe . perhaps the biggest challenge , however , will be to prevent a return to its former corporate rigidity as its recovery continues . already , personnel officials are talking about the need for a `` phase two '' cultural-reform effort of some sort . `` we are still only half way through the turnaround of this company , and there are many more things 0 to do , '' president kume says . he adds , however , that `` the momentum 0 we have generated is unstoppable .