insiders have been selling shares in dun & bradstreet corp. , the huge credit-information concern . six top executives at the new york-based company sold shares in august and september . four of those insiders sold more than half their holdings . the stock , in new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday , closed at $ 51.75 , up 62.5 cents , well below the $ 56.13 to $ 60 a share 0 the insiders received for their shares . much of the recent slide in dun & bradstreet 's stock came late last week , after negative comments by analysts at merrill lynch & co. and goldman , sachs & co . a company spokesman declined to comment and said that the officials who sold shares would n't comment . one of dun & bradstreet 's chief businesses is compiling reports that rate the credit-worthiness of millions of american companies . it also owns moody 's investors service , which assigns credit-ratings to bonds and preferred stock ; a.c. nielsen , known for its data on television-viewing patterns , and yellow-pages publisher donnelley . last march , this newspaper reported on widespread allegations that the company misled many customers into purchasing more credit-data services than needed . in june , the company agreed to settle for $ 18 million several lawsuits related to its sales practices , without admitting or denying the charges . an investigation by u.s. postal inspectors is continuing . among the insider sales , charles raikes , the firm 's general counsel , sold 12,281 shares in august , representing 46 % of his holdings in the company . he received $ 724,579 for the shares , according to insider filings with the securities and exchange commission . john c. holt , an executive vice president and dun & bradstreet director , sold 10,000 shares on aug. 31 for $ 588,800 , filings show 0 . he retains 9,232 shares . william h.j. buchanan , the firm 's secretary and associate general counsel , sold 7,000 shares in two separate sales in september for $ 406,000 . the shares represented 66 % of his dun & bradstreet holdings , according to the company . the other insiders , all senior or executive vice presidents , sold between 2,520 and 6,881 shares , representing between 8 % and 70 % of their holdings , according to sec filings . dun & bradstreet 's stock price began its recent spiral downward last wednesday , when the company reported third-quarter results . net income rose to 83 cents a share from 72 cents a share the year-earlier period . but analysts focused more on the drop in revenue , to $ 1.04 billion from $ 1.07 billion , reflecting in part a continuing drop in sales of the controversial credit-reporting services . last thursday , merrill lynch securities analyst peter falco downgraded his investment rating on the firm , according to dow jones professional investors report , citing a slowdown in the credit-reporting business . he cut his rating to a short-term hold from above-average performer and reduced his 1990 earnings estimate . mr. falco continues to rank the stock a longterm buy . the stock slid $ 1.875 on more than four times average daily volume . the stock received another blow on friday , when goldman sachs analyst eric philo advised that investors with short-term horizons should avoid dun & bradstreet stock because it is unlikely to outperform the market . the stock fell 75 cents . insider selling is not unusual at dun & bradstreet ; in fact , the recent pace of selling is just about average for the company , according to figures compiled by invest\/net , a north miami , fla. , firm that specializes in tracking and analyzing sec insider filings . but previous sales have often been sales of shares purchased through the exercise of stock options and sold six months later , as soon as allowed , said 0 robert gabele , president of invest\/net . the most recent sales do n't appear to be option-related , he said 0 . tasty profits : michael a. miles , chief executive officer of philip morris cos . ' kraft general foods unit , bought 6,000 shares of the company on sept. 22 for $ 157 each . the $ 942,000 purchase raised his holdings to 74,000 shares . the stock split four-for-one on oct. 10 . mr. miles 's newly purchased shares are now worth $ 1,068,000 , based on philip morris 's closing price of $ 44.50 , up 62.5 cents , in composite trading on the new york stock exchange yesterday . a spokesman for mr. miles said 0 he bought the shares because he felt 0 they were `` a good investment . '' the executive made his purchases shortly before being named to his current chief executive officer 's position ; formerly he was kraft general foods ' chief operating officer . shedding glitter : two directors of pegasus gold inc. , a spokane , wash. , precious-metals mining firm , sold most of their holdings in the company aug. 31 . john j. crabb sold 4,500 shares for $ 11.13 each , leaving himself with a stake of 500 shares . he received $ 50,085 . peter kutney sold 5,000 shares , all of his holdings , for $ 11.38 a share , or $ 56,900 . gary straub , corporate counsel for the company , said 0 the directors sold for `` personal financial reasons . '' both insiders declined to comment . on wall street , merrill lynch & co. analyst daniel a. roling rates the stock `` neutral '' and drexel burnham lambert inc. lists it as a `` buy . '' pegasus gold `` has been on a lot of recommended lists as a junior growth company stepping into the big leagues , '' says 0 marty mcneill , metals analyst at dominick & dominick , a new york investment firm . `` it 's a good company , and growing ; there 's nothing that would warrant that it be sold . '' yesterday , in composite trading on the american stock exchange , pegasus closed at $ 10.125 , up 12.5 cents .