the disarray in the junk-bond market that began last month with a credit crunch at campeau corp. has offered commercial banks a golden opportunity to play a greater role in financing billion-dollar takeovers . but two big new york banks seem to have kicked those chances away , for the moment , with the embarrassing failure of citicorp and chase manhattan corp. to deliver $ 7.2 billion in bank financing for a leveraged buy-out of united airlines parent ual corp . for more than a decade , banks have been pressing congress and banking regulators for expanded powers to act like securities firms in playing wall street 's lucrative takeover game , from giving mergers advice all the way to selling and trading high-yield junk bonds . those expanded powers reached their zenith in july when bankers trust new york corp. provided mergers advice , an equity investment and bank loans for the $ 3.65 billion leveraged buy-out of northwest airlines parent nwa inc . one of the major selling points used by los angeles financier alfred checchi in getting the takeover approved was that the deal did n't include any junk bonds . that was seen as an advantage in lobbying airline employees and washington regulators for approval of the contested takeover . all $ 3.35 billion in debt for the deal was supplied by banks . charles nathan , co-head of mergers and acquisitions at salomon brothers inc. , says 0 it is natural for banks to try to expand beyond their bread-and-butter business of providing senior debt for buy-outs . but the ual collapse , he says 0 , `` may tell you 0 it 's not going to work that easily . '' david batchelder , a mergers adviser in la jolla , calif. , who aided los angeles investor marvin davis on the bids which put both ual and nwa in play as takeover candidates this year , says that banks have been `` preparing to play a larger and larger role in acquisition financing . '' mr. batchelder says that in the past , banks would normally have loaned 65 % of a total buy-out price , with the loans secured by the target company 's assets . another 20 % of the borrowed funds would come from the sale to investors of junk bonds , which offer less security and typically carry higher yields than bank loans . mr. checchi 's purchase of nwa , mr. batchelder notes 0 , `` was probably the most aggressive to date , '' with bank debt at 85 % of the purchase price . but mr. batchelder says that citicorp 's `` failure to deliver '' on its promise to raise the ual bank debt for a labor-management buy-out group `` is very distressing to potential users of a ` highly-confident ' letter from commercial banks . '' his client , mr. davis , used just such a letter from citicorp in pursuing ual ; citicorp later agreed to work with a competing ual buy-out group . executives of citicorp and chase manhattan declined to comment on either the ual situation , or on the changing nature of banks ' role in financing takeovers . in the wake of campeau 's problems , prices of junk bonds tumbled , throwing into doubt the ability of corporate acquirers to finance large takeovers with the help of junk bond sales . mark solow , senior managing director at manufacturers hanover trust co. , says 0 the falloff in junk bonds may yet open new business opportunities to banks in structuring takeovers . but he warns that banks will have `` to have enough discipline '' 0 not to make loans that are too risky . in fact , manufacturers hanover said in its third-quarter earnings report that fees from syndicating loans to other banks dropped 48 % , to $ 21 million . `` we did n't take part in a lot of deals because their credit quality was poor , '' says a bank spokesman . james b. lee , head of syndications and private placements at chemical banking corp. , said 0 he believes 0 banks can still make a credible offer of one-stop shopping for takeover finance . as evidence , he cites yesterday 's arrangement for the final financing of a $ 3 billion bid for american medical international inc. in which chemical served as both the lead bank and an equity investor . beyond the current weakness in the junk bond market , banks have another advantage over investment banks in financing contested takeovers . arthur fleischer jr. , a takeover lawyer at fried frank harris shriver & jacobson , notes that `` a political and emotional bias '' has developed against junk bonds . one hostile bidder who deliberately avoided using junk bonds was paramount communications inc. in its initial offer to acquire time inc. for $ 10.7 billion , or $ 175 a share . a paramount spokesman says 0 that decision was based on the financial , not political , drawbacks of junk bonds . but some observers believe 0 paramount chairman martin davis wanted to avoid the possible taint of being perceived as a corporate raider in his controversial bid for time . in the end , mr. davis used junk bonds so that he could raise paramount 's bid to $ 200 a share . some monday-morning quarterbacks said 0 the initial lower bid , without junk bonds , was a factor in his losing the company . time eluded paramount by acquiring warner communications inc . the success of the nwa financing , and the failure of the ual deal , also seem to highlight the important new role in takeover financing being played by japanese banks . japanese banks accounted for 50 % of the nwa bank debt , according to a report by transportation secretary samuel skinner . but it was broad-scale rejection by japanese banks that helped seal the fate of the attempt to buy ual . citicorp and chase are attempting to put together a new , lower bid . takanori mizuno , chief economist of the institute for financial affairs inc. , a tokyo research center on finance and economics , says , `` the junk bond market became very jittery , and there 's a fear of a coming recession and the possible bankruptcy of lbo companies .