soichiro honda 's picture now hangs with henry ford 's in the u.s. automotive hall of fame , and the game-show `` jeopardy '' is soon to be sony-owned . but no matter how much japan gets under our skin , we 'll still have mom and apple pie . on second thought , make that just mom . a japanese apple called the fuji is cropping up in orchards the way 0 hondas did on u.s. roads . by 1995 it will be planted more often than any other apple tree , according to a recent survey of six apple-industry sages by washington state university horticulturist robert norton . some fruit visionaries say 0 the fuji could someday tumble the red delicious from the top of america 's apple heap . it certainly wo n't get there on looks . compared to the red delicious , the exemplar of apple pulchritude , the fuji is decidedly more dowdy -- generally smaller , less-perfectly shaped , greenish , with tinges of red . to hear most u.s. growers tell it , we 'd still be in paradise if the serpent had proffered one to eve . but how sweet it is . it has more sugar `` than any apple 0 we 've ever tested , '' says 0 duane greene , a university of massachusetts pomologist , or apple scholar . it has a long shelf life and `` does n't fool the public , '' says 0 grady auvil , an orondo , wash. , grower who is planting fujis and spreading the good word about them . `` it does n't look nice on the outside while getting mealy inside . '' mr. auvil , razor sharp at 83 , has picked and packed a zillion pecks of apples over the past 65 years . he is known as the father of the u.s.-grown granny smith , a radically different apple that the conventional wisdom once said 0 would never catch on . it did , shaking the apple establishment to its roots . now , even more radical changes seem afoot as the grand old maverick of american apples plays the role of hiroshi appleseed . `` the fuji is going to be no. 1 0 to replace the red delicious , '' he says . the delicious hegemony wo n't end anytime soon . new apple trees grow slowly , and the red delicious is almost as entrenched as mom . its roots are patriotic -- with the first trees appearing in 1872 in an orchard near peru , iowa , to be exact . for more than 50 years , it has been the apple of our eye . a good delicious can indeed be delicious . more than twice as many red delicious apples are grown as the golden variety , america 's no. 2 apple . but the apple industry is ripe for change . `` red delicious has been overplanted , and its prices have dropped below the cost of production , '' says washington state 's mr. norton . the scare over alar , a growth regulator that makes apples redder and crunchier but may be carcinogenic , made consumers shy away from the delicious , though they were less affected than the mcintosh . the glut and consequent lower prices , combined with cancer fears , was a very serious blow to growers . `` a lot of growers wo n't be around in a few years , '' says mr. norton , although they have stopped using alar . one may be william broderick , a sterling , mass. , grower . `` this is beautiful stuff , '' he says , looking ruefully at big boxes of just-picked red delicious next to his barn . `` but i 'm going to lose $ 50,000 to $ 60,000 on it . i 'm going to have to get another job this year just to eat . '' besides rotten prices , he has been hit recently by hail , a bark-nibbling horde of mice , fungi and bugs . some 500 insects and 150 diseases wiggle , chew and romp through growers ' nightmares , including maggots , mites , mildew , thrips , black rot and the flat-headed borer . even if a grower beats them back , his $ 2,000 rented bees might buzz off to the neighbors ' orchards instead of pollinating his , mr. broderick says 0 . though growers ca n't always keep the worm from the apple , they can protect themselves against the price vagaries of any one variety by diversifying -- into the recently imported gala , a sweet new zealand native ; the esopus spitzenburg , reportedly thomas jefferson 's favorite apple ; disease-resistant kinds like the liberty . `` i 've ripped out a lot of delicious '' and grafted the trees with many different shoots , says steve wood , a west lebanon , n.h. , grower , tramping through his 100-acre poverty lane orchard on a crisp autumn day recently . `` i 've got 70 kinds of apples . here 's a waltana , '' he exclaims , picking one off a tree . he bites it , scowls and throws it down . `` it 's a real dog . '' supermarkets are getting into the variety act , too . they still buy apples mainly for big , red good looks -- that 's why so many taste like woodchucks ' punching bags . but freshness counts more than it once did , and stores are expanding shelf space for unconventional , but tastier , and often pricier , apples . `` rather than sell 39-cents-a-pound delicious , maybe we can sell 79-cents-a-pound fujis , '' says chuck tryon , perishables director for super valu inc. , a minneapolis supermarket chain and food distributor . the fuji is a product of meticulous japanese pomological engineering , which fostered it 50 years ago at a government research orchard . japanese researchers have bred dozens of strains of fujis to hone its color , taste and shelf life . now the best of them age as gracefully as grannies , the industry 's gold standard for storability . in the cornucopia of go-go apples , the fuji 's track record stands out : during the past 15 years , it has gone from almost zilch to some 50 % of japan 's market . `` the japanese apple market is very keyed to high quality , '' says david lane , a scientist at a canadian horticulture research center in summerland , british columbia , and so apples are more of a delicacy there than a big food commodity . the u.s. department of agriculture estimates that this year americans will eat about 40 % more fresh apples per capita than the japanese . the fuji is still small potatoes in the u.s. , sold mainly in fruit boutiques . but in california , says 0 craig ito , a fuji-apple grower , `` there 's a fuji apple cult . once somebody eats one , they get hooked . '' mr. auvil , the washington grower , says that he could sell fujis to taiwan buyers at $ 40 a box if he had them . -lrb- taiwan already is a big importer of fujis from other places , he adds 0 . -rrb- but his first crop wo n't be picked till next year . `` i expect to see the demand exceed supply for fujis for the next 10 to 15 years , '' he adds . washington red delicious , by the way , are wholesaling for less than $ 10 a box these days . mr. auvil sees fujis , in part , as striking a blow against the perversion of u.s. apples by supermarkets . `` when the chain stores took over , there was no longer a connection between grower and consumer . a guy is sitting up in an office deciding what you 're going to eat . '' after all , until the 1950s even the red delicious was a firm , delectable morsel . then , as growers bred them more for looks , and to satisfy supermarket chains ' demands of long-term storage , the red went into decline . now , those red applelike things 0 stores sell in summer are fruitbowl lovely , but usually not good eating . they do deserve respect , however -- they are almost a year old , probably equal to about 106 in human years . the fuji , to be sure , has blemishes too . it ripens later than most apples , and growing it in u.s. areas with chilly autumns may be tricky . moreover , the frumpy fuji must compete with an increasingly dolledup delicious . mr. broderick , the massachusetts grower , says 0 the `` big boss '' at a supermarket chain even rejected his red delicious recently because they were n't waxed and brushed for extra shine . and he had n't used hormones , which many growers employ to elongate their delicious apples for greater eye appeal . still , mr. auvil points out 0 , grannies became popular without big , red looks , so why not fujis ? he sees a shift in american values -- at least regarding apples -- toward more emphasis on substance and less on glitz . `` taste has finally come to the fore , '' he says . or , for that matter , the core .