if you think 0 you have stress-related problems on the job , there 's good news and bad news . you 're probably right , and you are n't alone . a new gallup poll study commissioned by the new york business group on health , found that a full 25 % of the work force at companies may suffer from anxiety disorders or a stress-related illness , with about 13 % suffering from depression . the study surveyed a national group of medical directors , personnel managers and employee assistance program directors about their perceptions of these problems in their companies . it is one of a series of studies on health commissioned by the new york business group , a non-profit organization with about 300 members . the stress study was undertaken because problems related to stress `` are much more prevalent than they seem , '' said 0 leon j. warshaw , executive director of the business group . in presenting the study late last week , dr. warshaw estimated 0 the cost of these types of disorders to business is substantial . occupational disability related to anxiety , depression and stress costs about $ 8,000 a case in terms of worker 's compensation . in terms of days lost on the job , the study estimated that each affected employee loses about 16 work days a year because of stress , anxiety or depression . he added that the cost for stress-related compensation claims is about twice the average for all injury claims . `` we hope to sensitize employers '' to recognize the problems so they can do something about them , dr. warshaw said 0 . early intervention into these types of problems can apparently save businesses long-term expense associated with hospitalization , which sometimes results when these problems go untreated for too long . even the courts are beginning to recognize the link between jobs and stress-related disorders in compensation cases , according to a survey by the national council on compensation insurance . but although 56 % of the respondents in the study indicated that mental-health problems were fairly pervasive in the workplace , there is still a social stigma associated with people seeking help . the disorders , which 20 years ago struck middle-age and older people , `` now strike people at the height of productivity , '' says 0 robert m.a. hirschfeld , of the national institute of mental health , who spoke at the presentation of the study 's findings . the poll showed that company size had a bearing on a manager 's view of the problem , with 65 % of those in companies of more than 15,000 employees saying 0 stress-related problems were `` fairly pervasive '' and 55 % of those in companies with fewer than 4,000 employees agreeing . the poll also noted fear of a takeover as a stress-producing event in larger companies . more than eight in 10 respondents reported such a stress-provoking situation in their company . mid-sized companies were most affected by talk of layoffs or plant closings . the study , which received funding from upjohn co. , which makes several drugs 0 to treat stress-related illnesses , also found 0 47 % of the managers said 0 stress , anxiety and depression contribute to decreased production . alcohol and substance abuse as a result of stress-related problems was cited by 30 % of those polled . although dr. warshaw points out that stress and anxiety have their positive uses , `` stress perceived to be threatening implies a component of fear and anxiety that may contribute to burnout . '' he also noted that various work environments , such as night work , have their own `` stressors . '' `` we all like stress , but there 's a limit , '' says paul d'arcy , of rohrer , hibler & replogle , a corporate psychology and management consulting firm . the problem , says 0 mr. d'arcy , a psychologist , is that `` it 's very hard to get any hard measures on how stress affects job performance .