americans are drinking less , but young professionals from australia to west germany are rushing to buy premium-brand american vodka , brandy and other spirits . in particular , many are snubbing the scotch preferred by their parents and opting for bourbon , the sweet firewater from the kentucky countryside . with u.s. liquor consumption declining steadily , many american producers are stepping up their marketing efforts abroad . and those efforts are paying off : spirits exports jumped more than 2 1\/2 times to $ 157.2 million in 1988 from $ 59.8 million in 1983 , according to the distilled spirits council of the u.s. , a trade group . `` spirits companies now view themselves as global marketers , '' says michael bellas , president of beverage marketing corp. , a research and consulting firm . `` if you want to be a player , you have to be in america , europe and the far east . you must have world-class brands , a long-term perspective and deep pockets . '' the internationalization of the industry has been hastened by foreign companies ' acquisitions of many u.s. producers . in recent years , for example , grand metropolitan plc of britain acquired heublein inc. , while another british company , guinness plc , took over united distillers group and schenley industries inc . but the shift has also been fueled by necessity . while premium-brand spirits like smirnoff vodka and jack daniel 's whiskey are riding high in the u.s. , domestic spirits consumption fell 15 % to 141.1 million cases in 1988 from 166 million cases in 1979 . in recent years , growth has come in the foreign markets . u.s. brandy exports more than doubled last year to 360,000 proof gallons , a standard industry measure , according to jobson beverage alcohol group , an industry association . exports of rum surged 54 % to 814,000 proof gallons . mexico is the biggest importer of both rum and brandy from the u.s. . japan , the world 's third-largest liquor market after the u.s. and britain , helped american companies in april when it lowered its tax on imported spirits and levied a tax on many domestic products . california wineries , benefiting from lowered trade barriers and federal marketing subsidies , are expanding aggressively into japan , as well as canada and great britain . in japan , the wineries are promoting their products ' pacific roots and courting restaurant and hotel chefs , whose recommendations carry weight . in australia , britain , canada and greece , brown-forman corp. has increased its marketing of southern comfort liqueur . using cinema , television and print ads , the company pitches southern comfort as a grand old drink of the antebellum american south . the biggest foreign inroads , though , have been made by bourbon . while u.s. makers of vodka , rum and other spirits compete against powerhouses abroad , trade agreements prohibit any other country from making bourbon . -lrb- all bourbon comes from kentucky , though jack daniel 's tennessee whiskey often is counted as bourbon because of similarity of taste . -rrb- moreover , just as vodka has acquired an upscale image in the u.s. , bourbon has become fashionable in many foreign countries , a uniquely american product tied to frontier folklore . how was the west won ? with a six-shooter in one hand and bourbon in the other . `` we imagine with bourbon the wild west , western motion pictures and gunmen appearing , '' says kenji kishimoto , vice president of suntory international corp. , a division of suntory ltd. , japan 's largest liquor company . suntory distributes brown-forman bourbons in japan . bourbon makes up just 1 % of world-wide spirits consumption , but it represented 57 % of u.s. liquor exports last year , according to jobson ; no other category had more than 19 % . big u.s. distillers are fiercely vying for this market , which grew to $ 77 million last year from $ 33 million in 1987 , according to government figures . jim beam brands co. , a division of american brands inc. , is the leading exporter of bourbon and produces 10 other types of liquor . the company says 0 it will increase its international advertising 35 % in 1990 , with bourbon representing most of that amount . guinness 's schenley industries unit has increased its tv advertising in japan and has built partnerships with duty-free shops throughout asia , enabling it to install prominent counter displays . the company 's i.w. harper brand is the leading bourbon in japan , with 40 % of the market . bourbon exporters have succeeded in japan where other industries have failed , avoiding cultural hitches in marketing and distribution by allying themselves with local agents . jim beam brands has a distribution partnership with nikka whiskey co. , a distiller . seagram co. , which exports four roses bourbon , has such a link with kirin brewery co . some bourbon makers advertise abroad as they do at home . to promote jack daniel 's overseas , brown-forman uses the same photos of front porches from lynchburg , va. , and avuncular old men in overalls and hightops . jim beam print ads , however , strike different chords in different countries . in australia , land of the outback , a snapshot of jim beam lies on a strip of hand-tooled leather . west germans get glitz , with bourbon in the foreground and a posh beverly hills hotel in the background . ads for england are artsy and irreverent . one ad features a huge robot carrying a voluptuous woman in a faint . the tagline : `` i only asked if she wanted a jim beam .