you 'd think 0 all the stories about well-heeled communities and developers getting hud grants would prompt congress to tighten up on upscale housing subsidies . no way . congress has just made it easier for the affluent to qualify for insured loans from the deficit-ridden federal housing administration . it appears that the only thing 0 congress is learning from the hud story is how to enlarge its control of the honey pot going to special interests . right now , the largest loan 0 the fha can insure in high-cost housing markets is $ 101,250 . last week , housing lobbies persuaded congress to raise the ceiling to $ 124,875 , making fha loans more accessible to the well-to-do . but it does that at the cost of deepening the taxpayer 's exposure if the fha is forced to pay for more loans going sour . this is no idle fear last year the fha lost $ 4.2 billion in loan defaults . but the higher mortgage ceiling is only the starter kit for what senator alan cranston and majority leader george mitchell have in mind for housing . the senate banking committee will begin hearings next week on their proposal to expand existing federal housing programs . other senators want to lower the down payments required on fha-insured loans . that would be a formula for ensuring even more fha red ink . experience has shown that the most important element in predicting a housing-loan default is the down payment . because a purchaser can use an fha loan to finance all points and closing costs , the fha can wind up lending more than a house is worth . if housing prices continue to fall , many borrowers would be better off walking away from their homes and leaving taxpayers with the losses . much the same thing happened with busted s&ls , a problem 0 congress just `` solved '' with a $ 166 billion bailout . we hear that hud secretary jack kemp is toying with going along with some of the cranston-mitchell proposals . that sounds like a formula for ensuring that he gets dragged into the next hud tar pit . a group of 27 senators has written mr. kemp urging him to reject cranston-mitchell and focus on programs that empower the poor rather than create vast new government obligations . but even if he agrees , mr. kemp does n't write the nation 's housing law -- congress does . and the majority of members cynically view the current discrediting of hud as mainly a chance to shove through their own slate of projects . exhibit a is last week 's house vote to fund 40 pet projects out of the same discretionary fund that is at the heart of the hud scandal . none of the grants had been requested by hud , judged competitively or were the subject of a single hearing . more and more observers now realize that the key to ending future hud scandals lies in forcing congress to clean up its own act . this week , a baltimore sun editorial said 0 the lantos subcommittee on hud should forget about sam pierce 's testimony for the moment and call some other witnesses : the various congressional sponsors of the 40 pork-barrel projects . the sun concluded that mr. pierce is only part of the problem -- and a part that 's gone . `` if hud is to be reformed , '' it concluded 0 , members of congress will `` have to start looking into , and doing something about , the practices of their colleagues . '' of course , self-reform is about the last thing 0 this congress is interested in . proponents of expanding fha programs say 0 they merely want to help home buyers who are frozen out of high-priced markets . but the fha program is hemorrhaging bad loans . jack kemp has submitted a package of reforms , and they are surely headed for the capitol hill sausage-grinder . like the s&l mess before it , this is a problem 0 congress should be solving , not ignoring .