the chemical industry is expected to report that profits eroded in the third quarter because of skidding prices in the commodity end of the business . producers of commodity chemicals , the basic chemicals produced in huge volumes for other manufacturers , have seen sharp inventory cutting by buyers . once the chief beneficiaries of the industry 's now fading boom , these producers also will be reporting against exceptionally strong performances in the 1988 third quarter . `` for some of these companies , this will be the first quarter with year-to-year negative comparisons , '' says leonard bogner , a chemical industry analyst at prudential bache research . `` this could be the first of five or six down quarters . '' perhaps most prominent , dow chemical co. , which as of midyear had racked up eight consecutive record quarters , is expected to report that profit decreased in the latest quarter from a year earlier , if only by a shade . though dow has aggressively diversified into specialty chemicals and pharmaceuticals , the company still has a big stake in polyethylene , which is used in packaging and housewares . analysts ' third-quarter estimates for the midland , mich. , company are between $ 3.20 a share and $ 3.30 a share , compared with $ 3.36 a year ago , when profit was $ 632 million on sales of $ 4.15 billion . a dow spokeswoman declined to comment on the estimates . at the investment firm of smith barney , harris upham & co. , the commodity-chemical segment is seen pulling down overall profit for 20 companies representative of the whole industry by 8 % to 10 % . `` you will find the commodities off more than the others and the diversified companies about even or slightly better , '' says james wilbur , a smith barney analyst . first boston corp. projects that 10 of the 15 companies 0 it follows will report lower profit . most of the 10 have big commodity-chemical operations . still , some industry giants are expected to report continuing gains , largely because so much of their business is outside commodity chemicals . du pont co. is thought to have had steady profit growth in white pigments , fibers and polymers . moreover , the wilmington , del. , company is helped when prices weaken on the commodity chemicals 0 it buys for its own production needs , such as ethylene . analysts are divided over whether du pont will report much of a gain in the latest quarter from its conoco inc. oil company . the estimates for du pont range from $ 2.25 to $ 2.45 a share . in the 1988 third quarter , the company earned $ 461 million , or $ 1.91 a share , on sales of $ 7.99 billion . du pont declined to comment . monsanto co. , too , is expected to continue reporting higher profit , even though its sales of crop chemicals were hurt in the latest quarter by drought in northern europe and the western u.s. . the st. louis-based company is expected to report again that losses in its g.d. searle & co. pharmaceutical business are narrowing . searle continued to operate in the red through the first half of the year , but monsanto has said 0 it expects searle to post a profit for all of 1989 . most estimates for monsanto run between $ 1.70 and $ 2 a share . a year ago , the company posted third-quarter profit of $ 116 million , or $ 1.67 a share , on sales of $ 2.02 billion . monsanto declined to comment . but the commodity-chemical producers are caught on the downside of a pricing cycle . by some accounts on wall street and in the industry , the inventory reductions are near an end , which may presage firmer demand . but doubters say 0 growing production capacity could keep pressure on prices into the early 1990s . in the latest quarter , at least , profit is expected to fall sharply . for himont inc. , `` how far down it is , we do n't know , '' says leslie ravitz at salomon brothers . the projections are in the neighborhood of 50 cents a share to 75 cents , compared with a restated $ 1.65 a share a year earlier , when profit was $ 107.8 million on sales of $ 435.5 million . himont faces lower prices for its mainstay product , polypropylene , while it goes forward with a heavy capital investment program 0 to bolster its raw material supply and develop new uses for polypropylene , whose markets include the packaging and automobile industries . the company , based in wilmington , del. , is 81%-owned by montedison s.p . a. , milan , which has an offer outstanding for the himont shares 0 it does n't already own . at quantum chemical corp. , new york , the trouble is lower prices for polyethylene , higher debt costs and the idling of an important plant due to an explosion . some analysts hedge their estimates for quantum , because it is n't known when the company will book certain one-time charges . but the estimates range from break-even to 35 cents a share . in the 1988 third quarter , quantum earned $ 99.8 million , or $ 3.92 a share , on sales of $ 724.4 million . another big polyethylene producer , union carbide corp. , is expected to post profit of between $ 1 a share and $ 1.25 , compared with $ 1.56 a share a year earlier , when the company earned $ 213 million on sales of $ 2.11 billion . himont , quantum and union carbide all declined to comment .