technology stocks woke up , helping the over-the-counter market rise from its recent doldrums . the nasdaq composite index surged 4.26 , or about 0.94 % , to 455.63 . it was the market 's biggest gain since rising more than 7 points on oct. 19 . advancing otc stocks outpaced decliners by 1,120 to 806 . but the move lagged a stronger rise in new york stock exchange issues . the big board 's composite index was up more than 1.4 % , and the dow jones industrial average jumped 1.6 % . nasdaq 's gain was led by its biggest industrial stocks . the nasdaq 100 rose 7.08 to 445.23 . the financial index of 100 biggest banks and insurance issues added 2.19 to 447.76 . other strong sectors were indicated in gains of the transportation index , up 7.55 to 475.35 , and the utility index , up 8.68 to 730.37 . national market system volume improved to 94,425,000 shares from 71.7 million monday . many of nasdaq 's biggest technology stocks were in the forefront of the rally . microsoft added 2 1\/8 to 81 3\/4 and oracle systems rose 1 1\/2 to 23 1\/4 . intel was up 1 3\/8 to 33 3\/4 . but traders who watch the stocks warned 0 the rise may be yet another `` one-day phenomenon . '' technology stocks bore the brunt of the otc market 's recent sell-off , and traders say 0 it 's natural that they rebound sharply now that the market has turned around . but , they caution , conservative investors would do well to sell into the strength . `` they are always the first 0 to be sold when people are taking profits , because people are most scared of the high-technology stocks , '' said robin west , director of research for ladenburg thalmann 's lanyi division , which specializes in emerging growth stocks . the technology group includes many of the otc market 's biggest stocks , which dominate the market-weighted nasdaq composite index . analysts say 0 rallies in the group historically have lifted the market , while weakness in the sector often sank unlisted share prices broadly . but increasing volatility in the sector has exhausted investors who try to follow its dips and swings . the stocks have been pummeled repeatedly by inventory gluts and disappointing earnings as the industry matures and slows . some even claim 0 the group has become a lagging , not leading , indicator . the technology sector of the dow jones equity market index has risen only about 6.24 % this year , while the nasdaq composite index has gained 18.35 % . while the composite index lost less than a third of its year-to-date gains in the market 's recent decline , the technology group 's gains were more than halved . the otc technology sector is far from a cohesive unit . the group is divided primarily between software , semiconductors and computers . while computer stocks have taken the biggest hit from the slowdown in the industry , many software and semiconductor stocks have continued to outperform the market . microsoft is up more than 50 % this year , while intel is up more than 40 % . the technology group is also split between large companies and small , with the biggest stocks trading as blue-chip issues in the institutional marketplace , while the smaller stocks churn on their individual merits or faults , analysts say . the volatility of smaller technology companies has served the group well overall in recent stock trading , according to hambrecht & quist 's technology stock indexes . the brokerage firm tracks technology stocks with its technology index , which appreciated only 10.59 % in the first nine months of this year . but the firm also tracks smaller technology companies as a subset of the larger group . that index , which contains technology companies with annual revenues of $ 200 million or less , gained 17.97 % by sept. 30 this year -- still lagging the s&p 500 , but leading larger technology firms . yesterday , bank stocks lagged behind the overall otc market . the nasdaq bank index rose 0.17 to 432.78 . george jennison , who trades bank stocks for shearson lehman hutton , said 0 the stocks tend to fall behind because they are n't traded as much as many other issues . but , he added 0 , interest-rate-sensitive stocks in general are stalled . `` the interest-rate sensitives are n't rallying with the rest of the market because of fears about what the -lrb- federal reserve -rrb- will do , '' mr. jennison said . he said that investors will scour the october employment report , due out friday , for clues about the direction of the economy and the immediate outlook for interest rates . on the other hand , mr. jennison noted that the recent slide in bank and thrift stocks was at least halted yesterday . shearson lehman hutton gave small investors some welcome news by announcing that it would no longer handle index-arbitrage-related program trades for its accounts . shearson , with its in-house order execution system , has handled the bulk of such program trades in the over-the-counter market . the trading has been blamed for much of the market 's recent volatility . jaguar topped the most-active list , as its american depository receipts climbed 1 3\/4 to 13 5\/8 with more than 6.6 million adrs traded . britain said 0 it would waive its `` golden share '' in the luxury auto maker if shareholders vote to allow a suitor to acquire more than 15 % of the company . the announcement effectively removes the british government as an impediment to a takeover of the company , which is being stalked by general motors and ford . gen-probe was another active takeover stock . it surged 2 3\/4 to 6 on volume of more than 1.7 million shares after the company agreed to be acquired by japan 's chugai pharmaceutical for about $ 110 million -- almost double the market price of gen-probe 's stock . priam corp. lost 5\/32 to 3\/32 after filing for protection from its creditors under chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy code . mci communications added 1 1\/2 to 43 3\/8 . the company has toted up over $ 40 million in contracts in the past two days . monday , mci announced a $ 27 million multiyear contract with the investment bank stuart-james . yesterday , it received a $ 15 million , three-year contract from drexel burnham lambert . florida national banks of fla. slid 1 1\/8 to 24 3\/4 . late monday , the federal reserve board said 0 it is delaying approval of first union corp. 's proposed $ 849 million acquisition of florida national banks pending the outcome of an examination into first union 's lending practices in low-income heighborhoods . florida national said yesterday that it remains committed to the merger . dycom industries gained 3\/4 to 16 3\/4 after it said 0 it agreed to buy ansco & associates and two affiliates for cash and stock . the value of the transaction was n't disclosed . the companies being acquired provide telecommunications services to the telephone industry . willamette industries , whose stock has suffered steep losses in recent sessions , surged 1 1\/2 to 49 . the stock was one of many in the paper products industry that rose following georgia-pacific 's $ 3.18 billion bid for great northern nekoosa .