egon krenz , the man tapped yesterday to become east germany 's new leader , faces the same task that has fallen to neighboring socialist colleagues : reforming a country in crisis . but unlike the other new leaders in the east bloc , mr. krenz will face an immediate threat to his nation 's very existence : german reunification . mr. krenz , age 52 , is known as an old-guard ironfist , one likely to continue the method of running a country that the berlin wall made famous . even if he were to change his stripes and become another milton friedman , however , he would still stand a good chance of losing a country . mr. krenz almost certainly will be a younger version of erich honecker , his rigid predecessor as dictator . mr. krenz has followed much the same career path as mr. honecker : both spent years overseeing the freie deutsche jugend , the youth group that is the communist regime 's principal tool for stamping young germans into socialist citizens . more recently , mr. krenz has been in charge of east german security , and is the youngest member of the ruling politburo . faced with another mr. honecker , so many despairing east germans are likely to flee that the two german peoples will get their reunification , de facto , on west german ground . but if east germany 's arthritic politburo does loosen up enough to permit mr. krenz to make serious efforts at reform , he will face a challenge just as fundamental . abandoning socialism means abandoning the east german state 's reason for existence , and with it the justification for its watchdogs and its wall . in this scenario it 's hard to imagine that a pale imitation of the federal republic could avoid being pulled into some kind of tie -- economic , federal or stronger -- with west germany . mr. krenz may need a bit of time to consolidate his empire , which would do a lot 0 to promote reunification scenario one . cartoonists in west germany have already mocked the exodus by imagining an advertisement placed by mr. honecker : `` wanted : one people . '' the west german embassies in prague , budapest and warsaw are continuing to find refugees at their gates . of course east germany , true to its tradition , could tighten its borders yet further . two of the last gestures of the honecker regime were to close the border to czechoslovakia and install halogen lights in some spots along the frontier . but with world-wide opinion -- even , apparently in moscow -- against east germany , the country would have to turn itself into an albania to clamp down further on refugees . there have been some reports that mr. krenz is moving to `` soften '' his reputation , notably rumors that it was he who kept east germany 's state police off protesters ' backs at the country 's dismal 40th anniversary celebrations earlier this month . but even if he effects a hyde-to-jekyll transformation , he will face a serious ideological crisis and reunification scenario two . the problem is one that east germany shares with other half-states , such as north korea , but one 0 it must shoulder alone in the east bloc . when poland moves to reform , it can at least lean on its past : however flawed and short-lived joseph pilsudski 's interwar republic , it was a nonsocialist democracy . czech reformers can recall the wilsonian ideals of the same period in their country . even the soviet union has peter the great 0 to rediscover , should it choose to . but east germany is merely `` the land of truly existing socialism . '' beyond that , it has to compete with west germany for a claim to the german identity . up to now , the main weapon of the `` worker and peasant state '' has been the ideology of socialism . with talk today of a second economic miracle in west germany , east germany no longer can content itself with being the economic star in a loser league . without moscow 's military and party behind it , east germany runs the risk of disintegrating . if it goes capitalist , and increases trade with west germany , it will convert itself , willy-nilly , into an economic annex of the federal republic . there 's a certain cruel logic at work here : it 's particularly appropriate -- and tragic -- that the land that produced karl marx should prove socialism 's failure in an experiment that uses its own people as controls . there may be forces that would delay this scenario . ideologues are the last 0 to surrender , and germans are an ideological people . the protesters who greeted mikhail gorbachev at east berlin 's airport earlier this month were n't shouting `` go u.s.a '' -- they were chanting `` gorby , help us . '' ideologues on the other side of the border can also slow the process . helmut kohl 's governing conservative coalition is proving admirably true to the west german constitution by making more than 500,000 people of german descent automatic citizens this year alone . but within the government and in the think tanks outside it , many west germans maintain that they do n't want immediate reunification . politically , this currently is wisdom -- particularly given a nervous neighboring france . but it would be ironic if germany 's reunification , just like its division , eventually were the result of actions in centers of power other than bonn and berlin . in a statement that was as close as east germany gets to practicing `` glasnost '' , otto reinhold , an east german party theorist , actually acknowledged the reunification dilemma . `` the main problem , '' mr. reinhold said 0 in an east german radio interview monitored by radio free europe in munich , stems from the fact that `` the gdr is different '' from other east european states . `` what kind of right to exist , '' he asked , `` would a capitalist german democratic republic have alongside a capitalist federal republic ? '' that 's a question 0 east germany ca n't answer easily , no matter what its new leader does . miss shlaes is editorial features editor of the wall street journal\/europe .