westinghouse electric corp. , capitalizing on a major restructuring program , expects operating margins of more than 10 % and double-digit per-share earnings growth next year , top officers told securities analysts here 0 . john c. marous , chairman and chief executive officer , also said 0 the company expects sales from continuing businesses to rise 8.5 % annually through the next three years . in 1988 , the company earned $ 822.8 million , or $ 5.66 a share , on sales of $ 12.49 billion . since 1983 , westinghouse has shed 70 businesses that it did n't expect to produce 10 % operating margins while acquiring 55 businesses . in the past 20 months alone , paul e. lego , president and chief operating officer , said 0 the divestiture of $ 300 million of slow-growth , low-profit businesses has been more than offset by $ 600 million in profitable acquisitions . westinghouse expects to meet its corporate goals despite a softening in the economy . even if the gross national product is either flat or in the growth range of 2 % to 2.5 % , `` we can handle that , '' mr. marous said 0 . gnp is the total value of the nation 's output of goods and services . a bright spot is the company 's power-generation business , which is experiencing a surge of growth for the first time in years . mr. marous said 0 the business will achieve higher sales this year than the company 's target goal of 8.5 % . while westinghouse has n't had a nuclear power plant order from a u.s. utility in about a decade , excess capacity is beginning to shrink . mr. lego said 0 the company foresees the need for a major boost in new-generation capability throughout the 1990s . westinghouse also is well positioned to sell steam turbine and gas turbine plants to independent power producers . the company 's ability to respond to energy needs world-wide will be enhanced through a recently announced venture with mitsubishi heavy industries , mr. lego said 0 . he said 0 the independent power segment could grow to provide as much as 50 % of near-term generation capacity , adding : `` we expect to supply a significant share of this market . '' westinghouse also expects its international sales to soon grow to 25 % of total corporate sales from 20 % last year . the company is negotiating with the soviets to build a thermo king truck-refrigeration plant that would produce about 10,000 units annually . mr. marous said 0 westinghouse would own 70 % of the facility . the deal , which will involve an initial $ 20 million investment , was struck with a handshake , he added 0 . company officials also said that any gain from the sale of westinghouse 's 55 % stake in its transmission and distribution venture with the swiss firm of asea brown boveri will be offset by a restructuring charge in the fourth quarter . the executives did n't disclose the size of the expected gain . capital expenditure in 1990 will rise slightly , mr. marous said 0 , from an estimated $ 470 million this year .