ford motor co. and saab-scania ab of sweden broke off talks about a possible alliance after ford officials concluded that the cost to modernize saab 's car operations would outweigh the likely return . with the collapse of the talks friday , european analysts expect ford to intensify its pursuit of british luxury car maker jaguar plc , which is scrambling to fend off a hostile ford bid by negotiating a friendly alliance with ford 's archrival , general motors corp . saab , meanwhile , is left to continue its search for an ally 0 to shore up its sagging car business . saab said last week 0 it `` has had and will continue to have contacts with other manufacturers . '' among the possible suitors is italy 's fiat s.p . a , analysts said last week . ford and saab officials declined to elaborate publicly on the announcement friday that their negotiations failed to yield an agreement `` that could make long-term business sense to both parties . '' individuals close to the ford side of the negotiations said late last week that the no. 2 u.s. auto maker lost interest as it became clear that the swedish auto maker 's automotive operations had little to offer in the way of image or technology . ford originally had seen a saab alliance as a way to expand its presence in the european and u.s. luxury car markets . in addition , ford and saab had discussed a possible link between their heavy truck operations . but the talks on a heavy truck alliance apparently did n't go far . some european analysts speculated that officials of saab 's highly profitable scania truck operation balked at surrendering any of their autonomy . meanwhile , ford officials became convinced 0 they could n't expect to recover the investment 0 it would require to make saab 's cars competitive in the increasingly crowded luxury market . saab 's problems were underscored friday when the company announced that its car division had a 1.2 billion kronor -lrb- $ 186.1 million -rrb- loss during the first eight months of this year , slightly worse than saab-scania had forecast in its first-half report last month . overall , saab-scania 's pretax profit during the first eight months of the year plunged 48.9 % to 1 billion swedish kronor -lrb- $ 155.1 million -rrb- from 1.96 billion kronor -lrb- $ 303.9 million -rrb- a year earlier . industry analysts in europe said 0 the most likely suitor for saab now is fiat . saab and fiat have worked together in the past , in one case developing jointly a new auto chassis that became the foundation of saab 's 9000 model , fiat 's croma and lancia 's thema . last month , saab-scania chief executive georg karnsund said 0 his company has had talks with fiat about a broader alliance . but the talks yielded `` nothing so advanced that we needed to make a public announcement about it , '' he said . as for ford , analysts expect 0 the end of the saab play will allow the u.s. auto maker to focus its resources on the intensifying struggle with gm for a stake in jaguar . the failure of the saab talks `` makes it even more crucial for -lcb- ford -rcb- to be victorious '' in the jaguar contest , said stephen reitman , european auto industry analyst at ubs-phillips & drew in london . ford faces an uphill fight for jaguar , however . jaguar executives said last week 0 they expect to have a friendly alliance with gm wrapped up by the end of the month . gm , meanwhile , is hosting a delegation of members of the british parliament who are touring the auto maker 's headquarter operations in detroit . a gm spokesman said 0 the visit is n't connected to the jaguar situation . but ford clearly views jaguar as a prize worth fighting for , since the company 's gilded brand image would give ford a badly needed leg up in the high end of the luxury markets in both europe and the u.s. . last week , ford encountered a setback in its effort to broaden its u.s. luxury offerings when it was forced to abandon a four-year-old effort to market its german-built scorpio sedan in the u.s. as a luxury import under the merkur brand name . so despite the gm-jaguar romance , analysts say 0 ford by last friday had boosted its jaguar holding to about 11 % of the luxury auto maker 's shares outstanding from 10.4 % early last week . about 5.4 million jaguar shares changed hands in active trading on london 's stock exchange friday , and jaguar shares moved up 19 pence to 696 pence -lrb- $ 11 -rrb- . on the u.s. over-the-counter market , jaguar 's american depositary receipts rose 12.5 cents to $ 11.125 . joann s. lublin contributed to this article .