in a move to prevent any dislocation in the financial markets from the california earthquake , the securities and exchange commission said 0 it temporarily reassigned options listed on the pacific stock exchange to the american , new york and philadelphia stock exchanges and to the chicago board options exchange . the decision , which affects millions of dollars of trading positions , was made late yesterday because the pacific exchange 's options floor was shut down as a result of tuesday 's earthquake . the sec , faced with a major squeeze on options positions , said 0 it was necessary to ensure that options listed on the exchange could be traded today and tomorrow . sec chairman richard breeden said 0 the cooperation by the exchanges would enable investors to buy and sell options listed solely on the pacific exchange , guaranteeing the liquidity of the market . officials at the four exchanges said 0 well over 50 traders from the pacific exchange were taking flights from san francisco late yesterday to the american , new york and philadelphia exchanges and to the cboe , where they would continue making markets in the pacific-listed options . the big board said 0 carpenters quickly erected a new options floor 0 to accomodate 40 traders from the pacific exchange . in addition , specialists on the exchanges agreed to provide backup capital for market-making in pacific exchange options traded on the exchanges . trading was light on the pacific stock exchange yesterday , with workers at the exchange 's main floor in san francisco struggling to execute orders by flashlight as a result of a continuing power outage . the most pressing problem was the suspension of options trading . the pacific exchange has options for 129 underlying stock issues , including highly active hilton hotels corp. , which is listed on the big board . investors were concerned that they might be unable to exercise options that expire tomorrow . but professionals said throughout the day that the shutdown would n't be a cause for alarm even if it were to persist for several days . `` i 've told my staff and clients that they still have the ability to exercise their options , because they are guaranteed by the options clearing corp. , '' said michael schwartz , a senior registered options strategist at oppenheimer & co . the sec reassigned trading in the options , however , to allow investors to do more than simply exercise the options . while the exchange 's equities floor in san francisco remained open on a limited basis , orders were being routed and executed in los angeles . workers could dial out , but they could n't receive telephone calls . `` it 's a very uncertain situation right now , '' said navin vyas , administrative assistant of trading floor operations of the exchange , which has daily volume of about 10 million shares . because the exchange 's computer was rerouting orders to the exchange 's trading operations in los angeles , `` business is as usual '' mr. vyas said 0 . `` if one city is down , the other can take over . '' meanwhile , the brokerage firms in san francisco were trying to cope . charles daggs , chairman and chief executive officer of sutro & co. , said 0 traders came to work at 5 a.m. pdt -- many on foot because of uncertain road and traffic conditions -- but learned that they would have to await a required inspection by the city in order to turn the power back on at the company 's two main facilities there . that should happen by today , he said 0 . traders worked with the help of sunlight streaming through windows , despite large cracks in the walls and a lack of incoming phone calls . also , most of the telecommunications equipment was out . the traders were executing municipal bond , mutual fund and other orders through a sister firm , tucker anthony inc. , which is also owned by john hancock freedom securities but is based in new york . `` we are having a regular day . volume is down out of san francisco , but not out of the 11 outlying offices , '' mr. daggs added . sutro 's oakland office executed orders through the sacramento office , which was n't affected by the quake . others , like prudential-bache securities inc. , which has eight offices in the san francisco area , set up an 800 number yesterday morning for customers to obtain market commentary and other help . at kidder , peabody & co. 's sacramento branch , manager janet white received calls yesterday morning from workers in san francisco who offered to work in sacramento . then she discovered that quotron systems inc. 's sacramento lines were down , because they are normally tied in through a system that goes through san francisco . so the kidder brokers had to call other company offices to get quotes on stocks . at quotron , the company 's national call-in center , which swung into action for the first time last month for hurricane hugo , assembled a tactical team at 5 a.m. yesterday 0 to begin rerouting lines and restore service to brokers and traders . the company dispatched as many as 200 people in the san francisco area 0 to do the work , though most of the rerouting was done by computer . service appeared to be down throughout the financial district in downtown san francisco , while just parts of oakland and san jose were knocked out . but dale irvine , director of the emergency center , said 0 service was being restored to outlying san francisco areas . in chicago yesterday , options clearing confirmed that it guarantees the pacific exchange options . the firm also will permit its members and the public `` to exercise their put and call options contracts traded on the pacific exchange '' even if the exchange is closed , said 0 wayne luthringshausen , chairman of options clearing . -lrb- put options give holders the right , but not the obligation , to sell a financial instrument at a specified price , while call options give holders the right , but not the obligation , to buy a financial instrument at a specified price -rrb- . investors and traders in pacific exchange options `` are protected to the extent that they can convert their put and call options into the underlying instrument , '' mr. luthringshausen said 0 . `` we are seeing such exercises today , in fact .