bridge and highway collapses will disrupt truck and auto transportation in the san francisco bay area for months 0 to come . but rail , air and ocean-shipping links to the area escaped tuesday 's earthquake with only minor damage , and many are expected to be operating normally today , government and corporate transport officials said 0 . air traffic at san francisco international airport was running about 50 % of normal yesterday afternoon , but airport officals said 0 they expect a return to full operations by saturday . the major gateway to asia and one of the nation 's 10 busiest airports was closed to all but emergency traffic from the time 0 the quake hit tuesday afternoon , until 6 a.m. pdt yesterday when controllers returned to the tower . getting to and from the airport in coming weeks may be the problem , however . `` people 's ability to drive throughout the bay area is greatly restricted , '' said a spokesman for the american automobile association . tom schumacher , executive vice president and general manager of the california trucking association in sacremento , said 0 his organization urged trucking firms to halt all deliveries into the bay area yesterday , except for emergency-medical supplies . `` some foodstuff shipments will probably resume thursday , '' he said . `` right now most of the roads into the bay area are closed , but the list of closings changes about every 20 minutes . this -lcb- wednesday -rcb- morning the san mateo bridge was open and now we are informed that it is closed , '' mr. schumacher said . united parcel service , greenwich , conn. , said 0 its operations in the san francisco area have been reduced to 40 % of normal . a ups spokesman said that although none of the company 's terminals , trucks or airplanes were damaged in the quake , road shutdowns and power failures have impeded its pickup and delivery of packages . the spokesman noted four-hour to five-hour traffic delays on the san mateo bridge , for example . in addition , power failures prevented its package-sorting facilities from operating , causing delays . but freight railroads reported that damage to their facilities was relatively minor , with santa fe pacific corp. 's rail unit the least affected by the quake . santa fe stopped freight trains tuesday night while its officials inspected track but resumed service at 10:45 p.m. when they found no damage . union pacific corp. 's rail unit said that except for damage to shipping containers in its oakland yard , its track , bridges and structures were unharmed . that railroad is operating trains but with delays caused by employees unable to get to work . southern pacific transportation co. , the hardest hit of the three railroads in the bay area , said 0 service on its north-south coastline , which is used by an amtrak train between los angeles and seattle , was suspended temporarily because of kinked rails near the epicenter of the quake . but service on the line is expected to resume by noon today . `` we had no serious damage on the railroad , '' said a southern pacific spokesman . `` we have no problem to our freight service at all expect for the fact 0 businesses are shut down . '' amtrak said 0 it suspended train service into its oakland station , which sustained `` heavy structural damage '' during the quake . the passenger railroad said 0 it terminated some runs in sacramento , relying on buses to ferry passengers to the bay area . amtrak said 0 it planned to resume some train operations to oakland late yesterday . rail-transit operations suffered little damage , according to albert engelken , deputy executive director of the american public transit association in washington . the bay area rapid transit `` withstood the earthquake perfectly , '' said 0 mr. engelken , adding that the rail system was running a full fleet of 45 trains during the day to provide an alternative for highway travelers . `` the highway system is screwed up '' by the earthquake , mr. engelken said 0 . `` the transit system is how people are going to be getting around . '' he added that san francisco 's trolley cars and trolley buses were also running at full service levels . although air-traffic delays in san francisco were significant yesterday , they did n't appear to spread to other airports . the earthquake shattered windows at san francisco international 's air-traffic control tower and rained pieces of the ceiling down on controllers , three of whom suffered minor injuries . terminals at san francisco international also were damaged , but the tower itself was intact . tuesday night , thousands were diverted to other airports and had to wait a day to resume travel . runways at san francisco were n't damaged , but traffic was being limited yesterday to 27 arrivals and 27 departures an hour -- down from 33 to 45 an hour normally -- mainly because the noise level in the control tower was overwhelming without the windows , an faa spokeswoman said 0 . while the airport was closed , flights were diverted to airports in sacramento and stockton , calif. ; reno and las vegas , nev. ; and los angeles . united airlines , the largest carrier at san francisco , was operating only 50 % of its scheduled service in and out of the area because of damage to its terminal , which in turn was causing delays for travelers headed to the bay area . a united spokesman said 0 14 of its 21 gates were unusable , mainly because of water damage caused when a sprinkler system was triggered by the tremors . the united spokesman said 0 none of its people were injured at the airport ; in fact , as the airport was being evacuated tuesday night , two babies were born . yesterday , the united ticket counter was active , with people trying to get flights out , but the airline said 0 demand for seats into the city also was active , with people trying to get there to help family and friends . the airports in san jose and oakland were both fully operational by noon yesterday , the federal aviation administration said 0 . in terms of diversions , denver 's stapleton international may have experienced the most far-flung : a united flight from japan was rerouted there . `` i think 0 that 's the first nonstop commercial passenger flight from japan 0 to land here , '' an airport spokesman said . a japan air lines spokesman said 0 its flights into and out of san francisco were n't affected , but getting information about its operations was difficult . its telecommunications headquarters in burlingame , calif. , had been knocked out since the quake . `` we 're in the dark , '' he said .