mobil corp. is preparing to slash the size of its work force in the u.s. , possibly as soon as next month , say 0 individuals familiar with the company 's strategy . the size of the cuts is n't known , but they 'll be centered in the exploration and production division , which is responsible for locating oil reserves , drilling wells and pumping crude oil and natural gas . employees have n't yet been notified . sources said that meetings to discuss the staff reductions have been scheduled for friday at mobil offices in new orleans and denver . this would be a second round of cuts by mobil , which along with other oil producers and refiners reduced its work force by 15 % to 20 % during the mid-1980s as part of an industrywide shakeout . mobil 's latest move could signal the beginning of further reductions by other oil companies in their domestic oil-producing operations . in yesterday 's third-quarter earnings report , the company alluded to a $ 40 million provision for restructuring costs involving u.s. exploration and production operations . the report says that `` the restructuring will take place over a two-year period and will principally involve the transfer and termination of employees in our u.s. operations . '' a company spokesman , reached at his home last night , would only say that there will be a public announcement of the reduction program by the end of the week . most oil companies , including mobil , have been reporting lower third-quarter earnings , largely as a result of lower earnings from chemicals as well as refining and marketing businesses . individuals familiar with mobil 's strategy say that mobil is reducing its u.s. work force because of declining u.s. output . yesterday , mobil said 0 domestic exploration and production operations had a $ 16 million loss in the third quarter , while comparable foreign operations earned $ 234 million . industrywide , oil production in this country fell by 500,000 barrels a day to 7.7 million barrels in the first eight months of this year . daily output is expected to decline by at least another 500,000 barrels next year . some mobil executives were dismayed that a reference to the cutbacks was included in the earnings report before workers were notified . one mobil executive said that the $ 40 million charge related to the action indicates 0 `` a substantial '' number of people will be involved . some will likely be offered severance packages while others will be transferred to overseas operations .