helmsley enterprises inc. plans to close its company-owned insurance business and is seeking other brokers 0 to take over its policies , according to individuals familiar with the new york firm . helmsley enterprises is the umbrella organization for companies controlled by harry b. helmsley . these include office and residential real estate giant , helmsleyspear inc. , and helmsley hotels . the insurance brokerage agency , just a fragment of helmsley 's vast empire , would be the first piece of the company 0 to be stripped away since last summer when mr. helmsley 's wife , leona helmsley , was found guilty of tax evasion . industry sources estimate 0 the agency brokers property and casualty premiums worth about $ 25 million annually , and has revenue , based on a standard 10 % commission rate , of about $ 2.5 million . the insurance firm acts as a broker on policies covering buildings managed by helmsleyspear and others . many of the properties are owned through limited partnerships controlled by mr. helmsley . new york state law prohibits insurance brokerages from deriving more than 10 % of revenue from insuring affiliated companies . helmsley 's insurance division had slightly exceeded that percentage , sources say 0 , but the division was n't considered significant enough to the company to be restructured , particularly at a difficult time for the firm . adverse publicity from the scandal surrounding its founder 's wife and related management strife have put pressure on the entire helmsley organization . however , individuals close to the company insist 0 shuttering the insurance division , a sideline from the company 's core property management business , is n't the beginning of a sale of assets . helmsley 's insurance premiums are expected to be transferred to several different insurance brokerage companies . frank b. hall inc. of briarcliff manor , n.y. is reportedly working out an agreement with helmsley . officials there declined to comment , as did helmsley management .