as the soviet union grapples with its worsening economy , leading reformers have drawn up a blueprint for change designed to push the nation much closer to a free-market system . the proposals go far beyond the current and rather confused policies of perestroika , mikhail gorbachev 's restructuring of the economy . they lay out a clear timetable and methodology for liberalizing the system of setting prices , breaking up huge industrial monopolies and putting unprofitable state-owned companies out of business . they also address such taboo subjects as the likelihood of unemployment and high inflation , and recommend ways 0 to soften the social consequences . while many solutions to the nation 's economic troubles are being discussed , the blueprint is attracting widespread attention here because of its comprehensiveness and presumed high-level authorship . although it was published unsigned in the latest edition of the weekly ekonomicheskaya gazeta , soviet sources say 0 the article was written by leonid abalkin and a small group of colleagues . mr. abalkin , head of the academy of science 's institute of economics , was recently appointed deputy chairman of the soviet government and head of a state commission on economic reform . `` it 's clearly a manifesto for the next stage of perestroika , '' said one analyst . the economic ideas in the document are much bolder than current policies . for example , the proposed overhaul of prices -- an extremely sensitive political topic -- is far more precise than the vague plans announced by mr. gorbachev in 1987 and later dropped . but the proposals also display political savvy , couching some of the most controversial ideas in cautious language so as not to alienate powerful conservatives in the government who stand to lose out if they are implemented . seeking a middle path between opponents of change and radicals who demand overnight solutions , the article advocates what it calls a `` radical-moderate approach . '' the document is to be discussed at a conference of leading economists late this month , and will probably be presented to the soviet parliament for consideration this year . as policy-makers draw up proposals for the next five-year plan , which starts in 1991 , the blueprint represents a powerful first shot in what is likely to be a fierce battle over economic reform . the authors make a gloomy assessment of the economy and concede that `` quick and easy paths to success simply do n't exist . '' instead , they map out a strategy in several phases from now until 1995 . most of the measures would probably only start to have an effect on beleaguered soviet consumers in two to three years at the earliest . the key steps advocated include : -- property . rigid ideological restrictions on property ownership should be abandoned . the document proposes breaking up the monolithic system of state-owned enterprises and farms and allowing a big private sector to flourish , helped by tough anti-monopoly legislation . the economy would be thrown open to numerous types of ownership between now and 1992 , including factories leased by workers or owned by shareholders , cooperatives and joint ventures . some forms of private property would be sanctioned . such moves would greatly reduce the power of government ministries , who now jealously guard their turf and are seen as one of the major obstacles blocking economic reform . -- finances . emergency measures would be introduced to ease the country 's financial crisis , notably its $ 200 billion budget deficit . by the end of next year , all loss-making state enterprises would be put out of business or handed over to workers who would buy or lease them or turn them into cooperatives . similar steps would be taken to liquidate unprofitable state and collective farms by the end of 1991 . a unified system of taxation should be introduced rapidly . to mop up some of the 300 billion rubles in circulation , the government should encourage home ownership , including issuing bonds that guarantee holders the right to purchase an apartment . -- labor . a genuine market for labor and wages would replace the present rigid , centralized system . departing from decades of soviet dogma , the new system would lead to big differences in pay between workers and almost certainly to unemployment . to cushion the blows , the government would introduce a minimum wage and unemployment benefits . -- prices . the entire system of centrally set prices would be overhauled , and free-market prices introduced for most wholesale trade and some retail trade . consumers would still be able to buy some food and household goods at subsidized prices , but luxury and imported items , including food , would be sold at market prices . wholesale prices would be divided into three categories : raw materials sold at fixed prices close to world levels ; government-set procurement prices for a small number of key products ; and free prices for everything else to be determined by contracts between suppliers and purchasers . inflation-adjusted social benefits would ensure that the poor and elderly do n't suffer unduly . -- foreign trade . the current liberalization and decentralization of foreign trade would be taken much further . soviet companies would face fewer obstacles for exports and could even invest their hard currency abroad . foreigners would receive greater incentives to invest in the u.s.s.r. alongside the current non-convertible ruble , a second currency would be introduced that could be freely exchanged for dollars and other western currencies . a domestic foreign exchange market would be set up as part of an overhaul of the nation 's banking system . the blueprint is at its vaguest when referring to the fate of the two powerful economic institutions that seem likely to oppose such sweeping plans : the state planning committee , known as gosplan , and the state committee for material supply , or gossnab . but it hints strongly that both organizations would increasingly lose their clout as the changes , particularly the introduction of wholesale trade and the breakup of state monopolies , take effect .