manville , having rid itself of asbestos , now sells fiberglass , forest products , minerals and industrial goods . heady stuff it 's not . but manville 's ownership is unusual , and it has caught the eye of some canny -- and patient -- investors . the denver-based concern , which emerged from bankruptcy-law proceedings late last year , is controlled by the manville personal injury settlement trust . the trust , which owns 80 % of manville 's stock on a fully diluted basis , is a separate legal entity that is settling claims with asbestos victims . when and if the trust runs out of cash -- which seems increasingly likely -- it will need to convert its manville stock to cash . but as an 80 % owner , if it tried to sell much of its stock in the market , it would likely depress the price of its shares . some investors say 0 there is a good chance that the trust will , instead , seek to convert the company 's shares to cash , in some sort of friendly restructuring that would n't involve just dumping stock on the market . `` their principal asset is manville common stock , '' says jeffrey halis , who runs sabre associates , an investment fund that owns manville shares . `` if they tried to sell , they 'd be chasing their own tail . what makes the most sense is to find someone who wants to buy the whole company or cause a recapitalization of all shares . '' the trust is n't commenting on when it might need to liquefy its manville stock . however , the trust 's cash flow from investments is far short of its payments to asbestos victims . its cash and liquid securities fell by $ 338 million in the first six months of 1989 . the trust also will receive $ 75 million a year starting in 1991 on a bond 0 it holds from manville . and , beginning in 1992 , it will have a claim on as much as 20 % of manville 's annual net income . even so , the trust would seem to be facing a cash crunch . as of june 30 , it had settled only about 15,000 of the 81,000 received claims from asbestos victims , for an average of $ 40,424 each . -lrb- the average should drop over time , since the most expensive claims are being settled first -rrb- . and as of midyear , settled but unpaid claims amounted to $ 136 million -- more than half the trust 's total of $ 268 million in cash and marketable securities . `` at some point , we 're going to need an infusion of funds , '' a person close to the trust says . even before then , the trust may be eager to unload manville stock . it does n't pay a dividend , and this trust needs income . moreover , with 88 % of its assets tied up in manville , the trust is badly in need of diversification . `` obviously , a diversified portfolio would have less risk , '' the person close to the trust says . manville itself does n't rule out a restructuring . though the ink is barely dry on its new , post-bankruptcy law structure , bill bullock , manville 's head of investor relations , says 0 the company is continually pondering `` whether there is a better way 0 to be structured . we understand that the trust is ultimately going to need to sell some of our shares , '' he says . of course , one option would be for manville to buy out the trust 's shares -- which would do little to benefit public stockholders . but the trust , in most cases , is forbidden from seeking a buyer for only its shares before november 1993 . and both the trust and manville are seeking to avoid the bad publicity that , in the asbestos era , tarred the manville name . thus , analysts say 0 , the trust is unlikely to do anything that would hurt manville 's other shareholders . `` this is a rare case of a company with a big majority holder which will probably act in the interests of the minority holders , '' one investor says . even if there is no restructuring , manville seems to be attractive long-term . its stock , at 9 5\/8 , trades at about 8 1\/2 times estimated 1989 earnings -- an appropriately low multiple for a company with recession-sensitive customers . mr. bullock says 0 45 % of revenues are tied to construction . analysts predict little or no near-term growth . they are , nonetheless , high on manville 's management . `` it 's one of the best in the business , '' says salomon brothers analyst stephen dobi . and he says 0 manville has the financial flexibility 0 to buy other companies at the best possible moment when other construction-related firms are hurting and selling cheap . with a conservative debt-to-equity ratio of 1-to-1 -- and $ 329 million in cash -- manville is indeed actively on the prowl . so far , as a price-conscious shopper , manville has n't bought much . paul kleinaitis , an analyst at duff & phelps , says , `` even though they have borrowing power , they have been disciplined about acquisitions . '' and mr. kleinaitis says that with 80 % of its stock in friendly hands , manville is the rare publicly traded company that can ignore short-term stock fluctuations and plan for the long haul . manville -lrb- nyse ; symbol : mvl -rrb- business : forest products and roofing year ended dec. 31 , 1988 : sales : $ 2.06 billions net loss : $ 1.30 billion \* third quarter , sept. 30 , 1989 : per-share earnings : 30 cents vs. 44 cents \*\* average daily trading volume : 74,351 shares common shares outstanding : 120 million \* includes $ 1.29 billion extraordinary charge . \*\* year ago figure is restated .