researchers at american telephone & telegraph co. 's bell laboratories reported 0 they raised the electrical current-carrying capacity of new superconductor crystals by a factor of 100 , moving the materials closer to commercial use . the scientists said 0 they created small changes in the crystal-lattice structures of the superconductors to raise the amount of current that single crystals could carry to 600,000 amps per square centimeter in a moderately strong magnetic field . the scientists said 0 they made the advance with yttrium-containing superconductors cooled to liquid-nitrogen temperature , or minus 321 degrees fahrenheit . their report appears in today 's issue of the journal nature . the finding marks a significant step in research on `` bulk '' superconductors , which are aimed at use in wires for motors , magnets , generators and other applications . scientists had obtained even higher current-carrying capacity in thin films of the new superconductors , but have had problems increasing the amount of current that bulk crystals could carry . superconductors conduct electricity without resistance when cooled . a family of ceramic superconductors discovered during the past three years promise new technologies such as cheaper electrical generation -- but only if their current-carrying capacity can be raised . the at&t advance shows how one aspect of the current-carrying problem can be overcome . but `` it wo n't lead to imminent use '' of new superconductors , cautioned 0 robert b. van dover , one of the at&t researchers . he added that the current-carrying capacity of multi-crystal samples of superconductors remains too low for most practical uses because of so-called weak links between crystals . such multi-crystal materials will probably be needed for commercial applications . mr. van dover said 0 the at&t team created the desired crystal changes by bombarding superconductor samples with neutrons , a process that creates some radioactivity in the samples and may not be feasible for large-scale commercial use . still , scientists breathed a collective sigh of relief about the finding , because it demonstrates how to overcome the `` flux pinning '' problem that earlier this year was widely publicized as undercutting new superconductors ' potential . the problem involves the motion of small magnetic fields within superconductor crystals , limiting their current-carrying capacity . mr. van dover said 0 the crystal changes 0 his team introduced apparently pins the magnetic fields in place , preventing them from lowering current-carrying capacity . mr. van dover added that researchers are trying to determine precisely what crystal changes solved the problem . determining that may enable them to develop better ways 0 to introduce the needed crystal-lattice patterns . the at&t team also is trying to combine their latest superconductor process with `` melt-textured growth , '' a process discovered earlier at bell laboratories . the combined processes may significantly raise the current-carrying capacity of multi-crystal samples .