the survival of spinoff cray computer corp. as a fledgling in the supercomputer business appears to depend heavily on the creativity -- and longevity -- of its chairman and chief designer , seymour cray . not only is development of the new company 's initial machine tied directly to mr. cray , so is its balance sheet . documents filed with the securities and exchange commission on the pending spinoff disclosed that cray research inc. will withdraw the almost $ 100 million in financing 0 it is providing the new firm if mr. cray leaves or if the product-design project 0 he heads is scrapped . the documents also said that although the 64-year-old mr. cray has been working on the project for more than six years , the cray-3 machine is at least another year away from a fully operational prototype . moreover , there have been no orders for the cray-3 so far , though the company says 0 it is talking with several prospects . while many of the risks were anticipated when minneapolis-based cray research first announced the spinoff in may , the strings 0 it attached to the financing had n't been made public until yesterday . `` we did n't have much of a choice , '' cray computer 's chief financial officer , gregory barnum , said in an interview . `` the theory is that seymour is the chief designer of the cray-3 , and without him it could not be completed . cray research did not want to fund a project that did not include seymour . '' the documents also said that cray computer anticipates needing perhaps another $ 120 million in financing beginning next september . but mr. barnum called that `` a worst-case '' scenario . the filing on the details of the spinoff caused cray research stock to jump $ 2.875 yesterday to close at $ 38 in new york stock exchange composite trading . analysts noted yesterday that cray research 's decision to link its $ 98.3 million promissory note to mr. cray 's presence will complicate a valuation of the new company . `` it has to be considered as an additional risk for the investor , '' said gary p. smaby of smaby group inc. , minneapolis . `` cray computer will be a concept stock , '' he said . `` you either believe 0 seymour can do it again or you do n't . '' besides the designer 's age , other risk factors for mr. cray 's new company include the cray-3 's tricky , unproven chip technology . the sec documents describe those chips , which are made of gallium arsenide , as being so fragile and minute 0 they will require special robotic handling equipment . in addition , the cray-3 will contain 16 processors -- twice as many as the largest current supercomputer . cray computer also will face intense competition , not only from cray research , which has about 60 % of the world-wide supercomputer market and which is expected to roll out the c-90 machine , a direct competitor with the cray-3 , in 1991 . the spinoff also will compete with international business machines corp. and japan 's big three -- hitachi ltd. , nec corp. and fujitsu ltd . the new company said 0 it believes 0 there are fewer than 100 potential customers for supercomputers priced between $ 15 million and $ 30 million -- presumably the cray-3 price range . under terms of the spinoff , cray research stockholders are to receive one cray computer share for every two cray research shares 0 they own in a distribution expected to occur in about two weeks . no price for the new shares has been set . instead , the companies will leave it up to the marketplace to decide . cray computer has applied to trade on nasdaq . analysts calculate cray computer 's initial book value at about $ 4.75 a share . along with the note , cray research is transferring about $ 53 million in assets , primarily those related to the cray-3 development , which has been a drain on cray research 's earnings . pro-forma balance sheets clearly show why cray research favored the spinoff . without the cray-3 research and development expenses , the company would have been able to report a profit of $ 19.3 million for the first half of 1989 rather than the $ 5.9 million 0 it posted . on the other hand , had it existed then , cray computer would have incurred a $ 20.5 million loss . mr. cray , who could n't be reached for comment , will work for the new colorado springs , colo. , company as an independent contractor -- the arrangement 0 he had with cray research . regarded as the father of the supercomputer , mr. cray was paid $ 600,000 at cray research last year . at cray computer , he will be paid $ 240,000 . besides messrs. cray and barnum , other senior management at the company includes neil davenport , 47 , president and chief executive officer ; joseph m. blanchard , 37 , vice president , engineering ; malcolm a. hammerton , 40 , vice president , software ; and douglas r. wheeland , 45 , vice president , hardware . all came from cray research . cray computer , which currently employs 241 people , said 0 it expects a work force of 450 by the end of 1990 .