shaken by tumbling stock prices and pessimistic projections of u.s. economic growth , currency analysts around the world have toned down their assessments of the dollar 's near-term performance . most of the 10 analysts polled last week by dow jones international news service in frankfurt , tokyo , london and new york expect the u.s. dollar to ease only mildly in november . opinion is mixed over its three-month prospects . half of those polled see the currency trending lower over the next three months , while the others forecast a modest rebound after the new year . in late afternoon new york trading yesterday , the dollar stood at 1.8415 west german marks , up from 1.8340 marks late monday , and at 142.85 yen , up from 141.90 yen late monday . a month ago , a similar survey predicted 0 the dollar would be trading at 1.8690 marks and 139.75 yen by the end of october . sterling was trading at $ 1.5805 , down from $ 1.5820 late monday . in tokyo wednesday , the u.s. currency was trading at about 142.95 yen at midmorning , up from 142.80 yen at the opening and up from tuesday 's tokyo close of 142.15 yen . the average of estimates of the 10 economists polled puts the dollar around 1.8200 marks at the end of november and at 141.33 yen . by late january , the consensus calls for the dollar to be trading around 1.8200 marks and near 142 yen . those with a bullish view see the dollar trading up near 1.9000 marks and 145 yen , while the dollar bears see the u.s. currency trading around 1.7600 marks and 138 yen . a number of those polled predict 0 the dollar will slip as the federal reserve eases interest rates . david owen , an economist at kleinwort benson & co. in london , said 0 he expects further cuts in short-term u.s. rates in an effort to encourage a narrowing of the trade gap and to ensure a soft landing in the u.s. economy . robert white , a vice president and manager of corporate trade at first interstate of california , agreed with that view and predicted 0 the u.s. federal funds rate will drop to between 7 3\/4 % and 8 % within 60 days from its current level at 8 13\/16 % . fed funds is the rate 0 banks charge each other on overnight loans ; the fed influences the rate by adding or draining reserves from the banking system . mr. white also predicted a half-point cut in the u.s. discount rate in the near future . the discount rate , currently 7 % , is the rate 0 the fed charges member banks for loans , using government securities as collateral . he expects such a cut `` because of problems in several sectors of the economy , particularly real estate and automobiles . '' bolstering his argument , the commerce department reported yesterday that new home sales for september were down 14 % from august 's revised 3.1 % fall . the drop marked the largest monthly tumble since a 19 % slide in january 1982 . in last month 's survey , a number of currency analysts predicted 0 the dollar would be pressured by a narrowing of interest rate differentials between the u.s. and west germany . indeed , in early october the west german central bank raised its discount and lombard rates by a full percentage point . several other european central banks , notably in britain , followed the west german bundesbank 's lead by raising their own key rates . and a week later , japan raised its official discount rate by a half point to 3.75 % . the japanese discount rate is the central bank 's base rate on loans to commercial banks . after a surprisingly sharp widening in the u.s. august merchandise trade deficit -- $ 10.77 billion from a revised $ 8.24 billion in july and well above expectations -- and a startling 190-point drop in stock prices on oct. 13 , the federal reserve relaxed short-term interest rates , knocking fed funds from around 9 % to 8 3\/4 % . but predictions that central banks of the group of seven -lrb- g-7 -rrb- major industrial nations would continue their massive dollar sales went astray , as the market drove the dollar downward on its own , reacting to wall street 's plunge and subsequent price volatility , lower u.s. interest rates and signs of a slowing u.s. economy . g-7 consists of the u.s. , japan , britain , west germany , canada , france and italy . tomoshige kakita , senior deputy manager in the treasury department of mitsui bank ltd. in tokyo , suggested that uncertainty about u.s. stocks and bonds has made japanese investors leery of holding those securities in the near term , thus damping dollar demand . but , mr. kakita added 0 , once u.s. equities regain some stability , players will move back into dollar-denominated investments , especially treasury bonds , whose value rises when interest rates decline . mr. kakita said 0 the key dollar-yen exchange rate is at 135 yen . `` if 135 is broken , some panic will be seen , '' he predicted , explaining that japanese institutions are comfortable with the dollar anywhere between current levels and 135 yen . jens-uwe fischer , a senior trader at manufacturers hanover trust co. in frankfurt , said 0 he expects the dollar to recover within the next three months to around 1.88 marks as u.s. economic data , particularly u.s. trade figures , level off . he contended that the fed wo n't ease rates further , but predicted 0 bundesbank officials will relax key rates in west germany . alfred zapfel , chief trader at bank of boston in frankfurt , took an opposite stance . he said 0 he expects u.s. interest rates to decline , dragging the dollar down to around 1.80 marks by the end of january after a short-lived dash to 1.87 marks by the end of november . west german interest rates , he said 0 , will remain unchanged . `` but i 'm not one of these great dollar bears 0 you see more of these days , '' mr. zapfel said . `` i ca n't really see it dropping far below 1.80 marks . '' scott greene , chief foreign exchange dealer with julius baer & co. in new york , fits the description of a `` great dollar bear . '' he predicted 0 the u.s. unit will skid below 1.80 marks to around 1.78 marks this month and 1.75 marks by the beginning of the new year . `` we 're finally seeing the culmination of all the recessionary buildup of the last few months , '' he said , noting 0 a continuing downward trend in u.s. interest rates , a shaky stock market and `` gloomier economic times ahead '' all signal a significantly lower dollar . in the wake of british chancellor of the exchequer nigel lawson 's surprise resignation and sterling 's subsequent nose-dive , most analysts had little good 0 to say about the pound 's near-term prospects . mr. owen of kleinwort benson suggested that the new chancellor , john major , will take a tough line in his autumn statement later this month , helping to underpin the pound . but , he warned 0 , the currency will remain at risk . on the commodity exchange in new york , gold for current delivery dropped $ 3.10 to $ 374.70 an ounce in moderate trading . estimated volume was 3.5 million ounces . in early trading in hong kong wednesday , gold was quoted at $ 373.80 an ounce . christopher hill in tokyo , nicholas hastings in london , erik kirschbaum in frankfurt and caitlin randall and douglas appell in new york contributed to this article .