when anne volokh and her family immigrated to the u.s. 14 years ago , they started life in los angeles with only $ 400 . they 'd actually left the soviet union with $ 480 , but during a stop in italy ms. volokh dropped $ 80 on a black velvet suit . not surprisingly , she quickly adapted to the american way . three months after she arrived in l.a. she spent $ 120 0 she did n't have for a hat . -lrb- `` a turban , '' she specifies , `` though it was n't the time for that 14 years ago . but i loved turbans . '' -rrb- since then she has become wealthy . her husband and older son -- a computer prodigy profiled in the wall street journal in 1981 , when he was 13 -- run a software company with expected sales this year of $ 10 million . most recently , she has become the publisher of movieline , a four-year-old los angeles magazine that began national distribution last month , with an initial press run of 100,000 copies . distributed by the hearst corp. 's eastern news , the glossy publication melds vanity fair 's gossipy archness and premiere 's earnest delving into behind-the-scenes minutiae , with a special emphasis on tinseltown as fashion trendsetter . it 's being sold through bookstores , newsstands and some video stores . though ms. volokh is a small woman , she has an outsized personality and dramatic flair that seem perfectly suited to capitalism as it is practiced in hollywood . certainly life for her has changed considerably since the days in kiev , when she lived with her parents , her husband and her two sons in a 2 1\/2-room apartment in what she calls `` silent internal immigration , '' dreaming of escape . now , for example , she owns 48 hats . however , she remembers the lean years and recalls with relish wearing her first major american purchase -- that turban 10 years later and having a los angeles boutique owner ask her if it was a chanel . with obvious satisfaction , she says 0 she told him : `` no darling , i just give it a chanel look . '' she keeps track of the rest of her hats by stapling polaroid snapshots to the outside of each hatbox . are the hats merely part of her new l.a. persona , along with the many ultra-thin capri cigarettes 0 she smokes , the parties 0 she throws for 500 people , the chekovian feasts 0 she offers guests at her weekend place in santa barbara ? `` no , darling , '' she said recently in her fluent , slightly affected english , during a trip east 0 to promote movieline 's national expansion . `` you have to be born with it . i used to wear hats in russia , but i had to make them and my dresses . on the hat side i was n't getting what i wanted . '' now 48 years old , ms. volokh has definite ideas about what she wants . at movieline , she wants `` specific paragraphing , specific tone , a specific attitude -- bright and bold and tongue-in-cheek . '' in restaurants -lrb- in this case , the russian samovar , a new york restaurant operated by and for soviet emigres -rrb- , she did n't want the chirpy , folkish music bouncing through the room . `` you people here think 0 this is russian music , '' she said with disdain , and called over to the waitress : `` could you turn it off ? '' that done , ms. volokh spoke with rampant eloquence about the many attributes 0 she feels 0 she was born with : an understanding of food , business , russian culture , human nature , and parties . `` parties are rather a state of mind , '' she said , pausing only to taste and pass judgment on the georgian shashlik -lrb- `` a little well done , but very good '' -rrb- . `` if you are born to give parties , you give parties . even in russia we managed to give parties . in los angeles , in our lean years , we gave parties . '' as publisher of a magazine devoted to movies as guideposts for fashion and other fantasies , ms. volokh sees her party-giving as an important part of business . she has thrown extravagant soirees for crowds of people , but prefers more intimate gatherings . `` at american cocktail parties everyone 's always looking over your shoulder to see who they can talk to next . i like rather tea , because it is at the end of the day . '' she serves high russian tea , at 5 p.m . `` it 's supposed to be later but i just moved it . in los angeles , it 's important to catch people just after work . '' she also frequently invites directors , producers , actors , writers and other show business people for `` coffee and clips in the pleasure dome . '' guests bring movies on tape , and show their favorite three-to-five minute segments on the screen that unrolls from the ceiling of the volokhs ' art-nouveau library -lrb- `` the pleasure dome '' -rrb- . they eat `` sinful and sensual things '' -- and explain their clips . `` it 's very revealing and soul baring , '' said ms. volokh . the idea for movieline actually was dreamed up by an old friend of the volokhs , boris krutchensky -lrb- who has the title of co-publisher -rrb- , and laurie halpern smith , now the magazine 's co-editor . mr. krutchensky approached ms. volokh five years ago about backing the publication , which started out as a listing guide . she was interested only if she could guide it editorially as well . `` anne does n't believe in blandness , '' said ms. smith . `` she wants things to be exciting . and she has this inexhaustible energy . she 'll think of an idea 0 the editorial people think 0 is impossible , then she 'll have us make it work . '' in fact , ms. volokh was n't just a rich lady who needed a hobby . back in the soviet union she was a respected journalist , writing a weekly column about the national cuisine for sunday izvestia . those columns -- vivid discussions of the cultural and literary reverberations of food as well as practical advice on how to glamorize dreary sovietized meals -- became the basis for her erudite and entertaining cookbook , `` the art of russian cuisine , '' brought out in 1983 by macmillan publishing co . `` i do n't trust people who do n't eat , '' said ms. volokh , though she herself stopped eating lunch a few years ago to drop 25 pounds . `` look at dostoevski and kafka . no one ever eats in their books and look at them ... . tolstoy 's characters eat , pushkin 's , gogol 's . '' in her cookbook , which macmillan is bringing out in soft cover this month -lrb- with the blini recipe revised so it works -rrb- , she introduces each chapter with appropriate quotations from russian literature : pushkin on blini , goncharov on piroghi . in life , she offers practical dieting advice : `` divide your meals into important and unimportant . in a great restaurant , do n't deprive yourself . the other meals do n't matter . '' amusing as she is , and frivolous as she can seem , this is a serious person with some difficult memories . she was the child of relative privilege . her mother was a translator ; her father was `` the eternal vice director . '' `` i emigrated to wear better hats , do better parties , '' she said with a giggle . `` but we should n't leave out political reasons , number one . you try to maintain your dignity under difficult circumstances . one can not imagine how you live when you live those double and triple lives . '' by 1973 , after their second child was born , it had become clear to ms. volokh and her husband vladimir , a computer scientist , that they wanted to leave the u.s.s.r . ms. volokh quit her job , to remove herself from the public eye . the wait was miserable . before granting ms. volokh 's parents a visa , the government required her mother to obtain permission from her first husband , whom she had divorced 38 years earlier . mr. volokh was fired from his job , and had to endure hours of organized verbal abuse from his co-workers , accusations of sabotage and counterrevolutionary activities . the volokhs were afraid that they 'd end up like a friend of theirs who 'd applied for a visa and waited for 10 years , having been demoted from his profession of theoretical mathematician to shipping clerk . they did n't . their visa came in relatively short order , and they moved to los angeles . mr. volokh soon found work in his field , but ms. volokh refused the obvious and available occupation - as translator for a russian who spoke fluent english . `` that 's always looking back , '' she said . `` i wanted to be in business . '' on the way to that goal , she received her first u.s. paycheck for proofreading a book of polish poetry , attended secretarial school , then went to work for a fund-raising organization . soon she was running the office . when her husband and son founded their computer company , vesoft , she worked as business manager , bookkeeper and publicist . now movieline is located in the same building as vesoft . `` things work out unexpectedly in life , '' said ms. volokh . `` you never know if you 'll be chosen to be the scapegoat or the lucky one . we were lucky .