the justice department is in the process of trying to gain control over a law that federal judge david sentelle recently called a `` monster . '' needless to say , he was talking about rico . with its recently revised guidelines for rico , justice makes it clear that the law currently holds too many incentives for abuse by prosecutors . the text of the `` new policy '' guidelines from the criminal division are reprinted nearby . they strongly suggest that justice 's prosecutions of drexel burnham lambert , michael milken and princeton\/newport violated notions of fundamental fairness . justice is attempting to avoid a replay of these tactics . this amounts to an extraordinary repudiation of the tenure of new york mayoral candidate and former u.s. attorney rudolph giuliani , who was more inclined to gathering scalps than understanding markets . the new guidelines limit the pretrial forfeitures of assets of ricoed defendants and their investors , clients , bankers and others . this follows earlier new guidelines from the tax division prohibiting princeton\/newport-like tax cases from masquerading as rico cases . the forfeiture memo cited `` considerable criticism in the press , because of a perception that pre-trial freezing of assets is tantamount to a seizure of property without due process . '' it told prosecutors not to seek forfeitures if there are `` less intrusive '' alternatives , such as bonds , and in any case not to seek forfeitures `` disproportionate to the defendant 's crime . '' these changes come a tad late for princeton\/newport , the first ricoed securities firm . it was forced into liquidation before trial when investors yanked their funds after the government demanded a huge pre-trial asset forfeiture . princeton\/newport investors , including mckinsey & co. and the harvard endowment , made the rational decision to withdraw their money ; for the firm , the liquidation was sentence first , verdict later . prosecutors wanted $ 23.8 million in forfeiture for alleged tax fraud of some $ 400,000 . the experience of princeton\/newport and initiation of other rico-forfeiture cases against legitimate businesses taught drexel that a ricoed investment bank would be an ex-investment bank . drexel therefore agreed instead to an arrangement allowing it to plea to charges `` which the company is not in a position to dispute '' because of rico . part of drexel 's plea was to cut mr. milken loose . so after all the prosecutorial hoopla no one has established what , if anything , drexel did wrong . so two cheers for the new rules . justice has finally recognized its employees ' abuses , thanks largely to the demands for reform by former u.s. attorney in washington joseph digenova , who wants to salvage rico for real criminals . but prosecutorial guidelines are effective only if someone at justice is willing and able to supervise hyperactive prosecutors . judge sentelle , of the appeals court in washington , made this point at a cato institute conference last week in a remarkable speech titled , `` rico : the monster that ate jurisprudence . '' he said 0 ours is supposed to be `` a government of laws not of men , '' and yet rico defenders `` tell us that we should rely on prosecutorial discretion to protect against overbreadth of rico . '' no prosecutorial guidelines , observed or unobserved , limit civil rico cases by plaintiffs for damages . what now for princeton\/newport officials , drexel and mr. milken ? justice should review these cases to see what other prosecutorial abuses may have occurred . we suspect that justice will some day agree that only the complete repeal of rico can guarantee an end to injustices in its name .