richard breeden had n't noticed that his new desk had just four telephone lines and one phone . it was , after all , only his second full day as chairman of the securities and exchange commission . but the lack of lines became painfully apparent . as the stock market lurched into a 190-point free fall on oct. 13 , mr. breeden found himself scurrying around the sixth floor of the sec -- from his desk , where the new york stock exchange was on an open line , to his assistant 's office , where the commodity futures trading commission was connected , to a third room , where a computer monitored market moves . with other anxious calls pouring in , he recalls , `` i 'd either have to disconnect the new york stock exchange or go out to the secretary 's desk . '' it wo n't happen again . now there are more lines connected to the chairman 's office , and the market-monitoring computer has been moved next to his desk . it 's all part of a new `` command center . '' the changes in the office layout illustrate mr. breeden 's stance as the nation 's top securities regulator . like his predecessor , david ruder , he was faced with a crisis in the stock markets soon after coming into office . but unlike mr. ruder , who during the 1987 crash damaged himself by saying rather offhandedly that the markets might be closed , mr. breeden is turning the market drop to his own advantage , using it to further his agenda for the sec . in an interview and in congressional testimony , he repeatedly points to the recent 190-point plunge in the dow jones industrial average -- the second-largest ever -- as evidence of the need for congress to give the sec the ability to better monitor leveraged buy-out loan activity by brokerage firms and to track big trades in the market . a veteran of another financial crisis , the savings-and-loan bailout , mr. breeden wants to have the sec regulate securities issued by banks and s&ls . more broadly , he wants to `` modernize '' regulation by eliminating barriers between commercial and investment banking and by helping u.s. financial firms compete in the global market . he believes 0 the tax code encourages the use of debt instead of stock and may fuel leveraged buy-outs , an area 0 the sec does n't regulate directly but one where it wields influence both on wall street and in congress . also unlike mr. ruder , mr. breeden appears to be in a position 0 to get somewhere with his agenda . as a former white house aide who worked closely with congress , he is savvy in the ways of washington . what 's more , the coming months likely will offer him the opportunity to obtain his own majority on the five-member commission , enabling him to avoid the dissension that frustrated his predecessor . but mr. breeden , a 39-year-old securities lawyer , has skirted some of the heftier issues facing the financial markets . for instance , he has n't stated a clear position on high-risk , high-yield junk bonds , an area of growing concern as turmoil in the junk market spills over into stocks . he may be waiting to see the results of several pending sec studies of junk market liquidity and disclosure rules . he also has kept a close wrap on the names of people under consideration for the crucial post of enforcement director at the commission , a job vacant since the summer . mr. breeden 's selection will be scrutinized as an important signal about the strength of his commitment to continuing the sec 's high-profile pursuit of insider trading and market manipulation on wall street . congress seems likely to let the new chairman have his way for a while . members of the senate banking committee know mr. breeden from working on the thrift-bailout bill , and the relationship generally remains warm . indeed , during mr. breeden 's confirmation hearing last month , senators asked him to introduce his children three separate times -- more often than they asked about his qualifications for the job . these days , mr. breeden is winning praise in washington and on wall street for his behind-the-scenes role in monitoring the friday-the-13th market plunge and the following monday 's harrowing morning session . as a regulator charged with restoring investor confidence , mr. breeden avoided making market-jarring comments and worked to gather information critical to wall street and to other government agencies . not everyone has jumped on the breeden bandwagon , however . some in washington contend that it 's too soon to tell whether mr. breeden will help or hinder the sec . `` i do n't think 0 this was a real test , '' says one congressional aide . `` it was a fairly stressful weekend , but my sense is 0 if you had n't had richard breeden there , it would n't have made much of a difference . '' for some at the sec , an agency that covets its independence , mr. breeden may be too much of a washington insider . they note that he has adorned his office with five photos of george bush , one of them featuring the first dog , millie . they worry that mr. breeden also will roll over when told to do so by the white house . but mr. breeden already has shown an eagerness to run the sec his way . during the monday market rebound , a new york exchange spokesman told cable news network viewers that the industrial average had turned down 70 points . stunned , mr. breeden turned to his market-monitoring computer , which by then was next to his desk . it showed the djia up 30 points . sec staffers soon determined that a widely watched stock-market service , quotron , had miscalculated the industrial average . mr. breeden instructed sec staffers to inform the network that it was airing the wrong number . `` it was the plunge that did n't happen , '' he says . mr. breeden also is trying to use a far more catastrophic event -- the california earthquake -- to move another rule change past congress . that disaster closed the pacific stock exchange 's stock options-trading operation , forcing those options to be switched to other exchanges temporarily . though obscure to most investors , the question of whether to list options on more than one exchange has aroused much interest in congress , mainly because regional exchanges fear 0 the change could bankrupt them . congressmen raised the issue yesterday at a hearing . mr. breeden , not missing a chance to press his agenda , cited the earthquake . that event , he contended 0 , simply shows the `` vulnerability '' of having listings on only one exchange .