every workday at 11 a.m. , 40-year-old mike sinyard dons cycling clothes , hops on a bike 0 he keeps at his morgan hill , calif. , office and sets out to cover a distance 0 most people would travel only by car . as many as 50 of his employees at specialized bicycle components inc. ride with him . when they return to their desks at 1 p.m. , they have pedaled 20 miles . such fervor for cycling helped mr. sinyard build a creative company at the forefront of its industry . founded by bike enthusiasts rather than businessmen , specialized spotted the appeal of fat-tired bikes that go almost anywhere and began mass-producing them in 1981 . in the past five years , the company 's sales have grown to $ 80 million from $ 26 million . today , so-called mountain bikes account for two-thirds of the $ 2 billion spent annually on all bicycles in the u.s. . with 65 % of its sales coming from mountain bikes , specialized is widely considered to be a market leader . -lrb- accessories , largely for mountain-bike users , account for much of the rest of sales . -rrb- but today , the company needs its entrepreneurial spirit more than ever . one large competitor after another is leaping into the booming market 0 specialized helped create , turning out mountain bikes with such well-known names as schwinn , peugeot , raleigh and nishiki . thus , mr. sinyard 's company must innovate more than ever to stay ahead of them , by developing new products specifically for mountain biking . at the same time , though , it must become more structured to better manage its growth . accomplishing both will be a balancing act as challenging as riding a unicycle . it is a problem common to small companies that have grown fast -- especially when their success attracts big-time competitors . `` the big word around specialized is passion , '' says erik eidsmo , a former ski-industry executive whom mr. sinyard recruited from citicorp to run marketing and sales . `` what i hope to bring to this is another word : process . that 's my challenge . it 's mike 's challenge as well . '' mr. eidsmo is one of several key people from outside the cycling industry who were hired to bring the free-wheeling , fast-growing company under tighter control . `` we had a lot of problems , '' mr. sinyard says . while the company 's sales were soaring , `` we still had a system that was probably appropriate for $ 10 million to $ 20 million in sales . '' adds mr. eidsmo , `` what felt good that day was done that day . '' since his arrival in may , mr. eidsmo has put in place techniques learned while working for citicorp , such as management-by-objective , detailed project plans and forecasts of company sales and product trends . `` we 're finally getting -- and it 's been very painful -- some understanding of what the company 's long-term horizon should begin to look like , '' mr. eidsmo says . `` but it 's risky , '' he says of specialized 's attempt to adopt a corporate structure . `` you do n't want to lose the magic '' of the company 's creative drive . hoping to stay ahead of the pack , the company is emphasizing innovation . at a recent trade show , convention-goers lined up to view a new specialized bike frame that weighs just 2.7 pounds -- a pound less than the lightest mountain-bike frame on the market . by replacing the frame 's steel lugs with titanium ones , mr. sinyard 's company plans to make its next generation of frames even lighter . at the trade show , specialized also unveiled a revolutionary three-spoked bike wheel developed jointly by specialized and du pont co . made of space-age materials , the wheel spokes are designed like airplane wings to shave 10 minutes off the time of a rider in a 100-mile race , the company claims 0 . it currently costs $ 750 , though mr. sinyard thinks 0 the price can be reduced within three years to between $ 200 and $ 250 . he was able to slash the price of the company 's least expensive mountain bike to $ 279 from $ 750 in but demands on the company 's creativity are certain to grow . competition is intensifying as larger companies invade a mountain-bike market 0 mr. sinyard 's company once had virtually all to itself . u.s. cycling federation official philip milburn says 0 mountain biking is `` growing at such a monstrous rate that a lot of companies are getting into this . '' one especially coveted specialized market 0 the new players are targeting is mountain-bike accessories , which mr. eidsmo calls `` the future of our business . '' accessories not only sell faster than whole bikes , they also offer profit margins nearly double the 25 % to 30 % or so on sales of complete cycles . to get a piece of the business , nike inc. , beaverton , ore. , introduced a line of mountain-bike shoes . about a month ago , michelin tire corp. , greenville , s.c. , began selling mountain-bike tires , for years a specialized stronghold . competition in the sale of complete bikes is heating up too . trek bicycle corp. , which accounts for one-quarter of the $ 400 million in annual sales at its milwaukee-based parent , intrepid corp. , entered the mountain-bike business in 1983 . trek previously made only traditional road bikes , but `` it did n't take a rocket scientist to change a road bike into a mountain bike , '' says trek 's president , dick burke . the segment now makes up roughly two-thirds of his company 's total sales . at giant bicycle inc. , rancho dominguez , calif. , sales have tripled since the company entered the u.s. mountain-bike business in 1987 . a subsidiary of a taiwanese holding company with world-wide sales of $ 150 million , giant is one example of the sudden globalization of mr. sinyard 's once-cozy market niche . schwinn bicycle co. , chicago , established joint ventures with bike companies in mainland china and hungary to sell bikes . in the past year , derby international corp. , luxembourg , has acquired such major brands as peugeot , raleigh and nishiki . in response to the internationalization of the business , mr. sinyard 's company is replacing independent distributors overseas with wholly owned subsidiaries . the move will cut out the cost of a middleman and give specialized more control over marketing and sales . but as bill austin , giant 's president , puts it , `` with some of the bigger players consolidating their strength , the game has changed .