call jim wright 's office in downtown fort worth , texas , these days and the receptionist still answers the phone , `` speaker wright 's office . '' the former congressman , who resigned as speaker of the house after an investigation of his financial dealings , is ensconced in his district office , maintained by taxpayers on a $ 200,000 allowance . he is negotiating a rich book contract to boot . one of the hottest tickets on washington 's social calendar this fall was a charity benefit honoring former congressman tony coelho , who landed a million-dollar job on wall street after resigning over a controversial junk-bond investment last summer . michael deaver , the former white house aide , has become the most recent addition to the teeming ranks of fallen politicians and officials earning their way as lobbyists and consultants here . mr. deaver has reopened a public-relations business . surviving scandal has become a rite of political passage at a time when a glut of scandal has blunted this town 's sensibility . let the president demand strict new ethics rules : with four sitting house members accused of sexual misdeeds , amid the unfolding hud scandal and after the wright debacle , `` people are slightly dulled by scandal , '' says 0 political humorist art buchwald . `` it now takes something really weird to inspire public outrage . '' not all the scandal-tripped have enjoyed soft landings . but many have . `` these people bounce back more resiliently than regular people , '' says washington writer suzanne garment , who is working on a history of post-watergate scandal . given their own penchant for book writing , it is surprising that none of the masters of scandal survival have yet published a guide to the art . for there is an emerging protocol -- indeed , an etiquette -- to it . among the rules : pretend 0 nothing happened as if he were still in his old job , mr. wright , by resigning with his title instead of being forced from his job , by law enjoys a $ 120,000 annual office expense allowance , three paid staffers , up to $ 67,000 for stationery and telephones and continued use of the franking privilege . not to mention a generous federal pension . there is also a busy schedule of speaking engagements at $ 10,000 a pop , at tony places including the yale political union . `` he 's as busy as he was as speaker , '' reports mr. wright 's administrative aide , larry shannon . atone on the edge of fashionable georgetown , in a chic office with a river view and a number of corporate clients whom he wo n't name , mr. deaver is trying to reclaim his reputation as one of the savviest image makers in town . there are few mementos of his days as white house deputy chief of staff and confidant of ronald and nancy reagan . the former $ 3 million-a-year lobbyist now frequents shelters for the homeless and devotes a third of his time counseling other recovering alcoholics . `` i feel better than i ever have in my life , '' he says . mr. deaver confessed to his alcoholism during his trial on perjury charges . he is also a recovering workaholic , relaxing with his family and creating topiary , or garden-shrub sculpture , a fashionable pursuit for which he developed a passion during his three-year legal ordeal . one sign of mr. deaver 's renaissance : an appearance on abc 's `` nightline '' for a show on pack journalism . host ted koppel introduced him as `` the media master of the reagan administration , '' with nary a mention of mr. deaver 's conviction in 1987 on perjury charges . finding god `` when someone says , ` i 've turned to god , ' everybody lays off , '' observes frank mankiewicz , an old washington hand and former aide to robert kennedy . thus have charles colson and jeb magruder launched successful post-watergate careers at the pulpit . but it does n't always work so smoothly . after allegations surfaced in a 1985 divorce contest that he had beaten his wife , sec enforcement chief john fedders retreated to a trappist monastery in rural virginia . he is now in solo law practice in washington , but his fees have been meager and he failed in efforts to win a chunk of his ex-wife 's royalties on her tell-all book . from time to time he returns to the monastery for prayer , meditation and pro bono legal work . mr. fedders is philosophical about his travails . `` this whole experience has been an opportunity for internal growth , '' he says . he sees a psychoanalyst five mornings a week . `` i 've surrendered to the circumstances , '' mr. fedders says . `` the word surrender has a precise psychoanalytic meaning . my universe has changed . i 'm enjoying my life and who i am today . the aspect of being a mega-lawyer is n't as important . '' do n't linger `` the best thing 0 you can do is get off the screen , '' says mr. buchwald . nobody proved that more masterfully than mr. coelho , the former democratic majority whip . declaring that there was life after congress , he resigned almost immediately after media reports questioned the propriety of a 1986 junk-bond investment , before any official investigations took hold . among the glitterati who turned out in bipartisan black-tie force to benefit the coelho epilepsy fund last month were sen. robert dole , rep. newt gingrich , and other kingpins of congress . dan rather served as emcee . from his new , million-dollar-a-year perch on wall street as a managing director of wertheim schroder & co. , mr. coelho reports that many of his former colleagues have contacted him to find out how they , too , can pursue investment banking careers . it helps to be male male scandal victims invariably fare better . anne burford , the former epa chief who resigned under fire in 1983 during a flap with congress , was kayoed in the confrontation , even though she was never charged with official wrondgoing . she worked part-time as a consultant and wrote a book , but never restarted her high-powered legal career . it did n't help when , in 1986 , she was charged -lrb- and then cleared -rrb- on allegations of public drunkenness . `` i cut my losses and ran , '' she says , from her new home in colorado , where she is busy remodeling . mrs. burford remains bitter over the overwhelming legal expenses involved in clearing her name . `` my husband was instantly impoverished by the very act of marrying me , '' she says . another former epa official , rita lavelle , is still struggling after her conviction in 1983 on perjury charges . `` there 's nothing 0 she could do to bring herself back to where she was , '' says her lawyer , james bierbower . `` you could say 0 she survived , but it was n't easy on her . '' no book contracts have been dangled before deborah gore dean , the reigning queen of the hud scandal . donna rice of gary hart fame failed to obtain a book contract and lost her modeling contract for `` no excuses '' jeans . fawn hall , oliver north 's former secretary , has yet to launch a hoped-for television news career , according to her lawyer . rita jenrette , the former wife of abscam-indicted rep. john jenrette , has yet to hit it big in hollywood , although with roles in such movies as `` zombie island massacre '' and `` aunt ida 's bikini shop , '' she is doing a lot better than her former husband . he was back in jail over the summer on shoplifting charges . be the star central figures -- such as richard nixon -- usually fare better than those with supporting roles . richard secord , the retired air force general felled in the iran-contra scandal , is all but ruined -- forced to sell his virginia home and pull his kids out of college , according to a recent fund-raising appeal sent out on his behalf . yet his co-defendant in the case -- also a former military officer by the name of oliver north -- has been busily and profitably burnishing his involvement in the affair . what accounts for the difference ? during the televised iran-contra hearings , mr. north came off as a patriot from central casting . mr. secord 's performance was decidedly less inspiring . mr. north remains in heavy demand as a speaker , for fees reported in the $ 20,000 range . even in the wake of hurricane hugo 750 people turned out in a remote virginia town in september for a `` family tribute '' to mr. north given by two dozen conservative members of congress . if sex is involved , all bets are off sex scandals make people look careless and silly , and one of the worst sins in washington is to be laughed at . `` you can be wicked , but not foolish , '' says mr. mankiewicz . nevertheless , rep. gerry studds of massachusetts was handily re-elected because of the candor with which he handled revelations that he had sex with a male congressional page in 1983 . former rep. robert bauman , a maryland republican who lost his seat in 1980 after he was caught soliciting sex from a 16-year-old boy , has never regained his professional footing as a lawyer . mr. bauman , a conservative , says 0 he was deserted by the right wing . `` conservatives shoot their own , '' he says . if the political establishment is reluctant to forgive sexual misadventures , the private sector sometimes will . john tower was accused of womanizing and boozing during his unsuccessful bid to win confirmation as secretary of defense earlier this year . now he is writing a book , serving on an elite foreign policy advisory board and consulting for an array of corporate clients , including british publishing mogul robert maxwell . become a lobbyist when all else fails , gucci gulch -- the fabled halls of the capitol inhabited by lobbyists and their imported shoes -- offers a welcome environment for fallen officials . former rep. fernand st germain , brought down by the savings-and-loan crisis , now represents -- you guessed it -- savings-and-loans associations . some become pseudo-lobbyists . john mack promptly quit his job last spring as an aide to speaker wright amid public outrage over mr. mack 's violent attack on a young woman when he was 19 years old . after a few weeks in seclusion , mr. mack opened a consulting firm , but not to enable him to directly lobby ; that would require him to disclose his clients by registering as a lobbyist . still , mr. mack says 0 he talks to `` 30 members of congress a week . '' misery loves company other scandal survivors are sometimes the best source of solace . raymond donovan , the new jersey construction executive who was forced to resign as labor secretary and indicted in 1985 , only to be acquitted of fraud charges , often calls other scandal-tossed public figures to offer a sympathetic ear . each time 0 a new scandal hits , he says 0 , `` it pulls the scabs off your knees . '' one of the first people 0 to come to the deaver home after his troubles erupted was former nixon aide john ehrlichman , whom mr. deaver scarcely knew . `` he reassured me that the hurricane would end , '' mr. deaver recalls . mr. bauman received an encouraging letter from the recognized master of scandal survival , richard nixon . says mr. bauman : `` if things get really tough , i can always auction it off at sotheby 's .