congress sent president bush an $ 18.4 billion fiscal 1990 treasury and postal service bill providing $ 5.5 billion for the internal revenue service and increasing the customs service 's air-interdiction program nearly a third . final approval came on a simple voice vote in the senate , and the swift passage contrasted with months of negotiations over the underlying bill which is laced with special-interest provisions for both members and the executive branch . an estimated $ 33 million was added for university and science grants , including $ 1.5 million for smith college . and southwest lawmakers were a driving force behind $ 54.6 million for u.s.-mexico border facilities , or more than double the administration 's request . more than $ 1.8 million is allocated for pensions and expenses for former presidents , and the budget for the official residence of vice president quayle is more than doubled , with $ 200,000 designated for improvements to the property . even the office of management and budget is remembered with an extra $ 1 million 0 to help offset pay costs that other government departments are being asked to absorb . within the irs , nearly $ 1.95 billion is provided for processing tax returns , a 12 % increase over fiscal 1989 and double what the government was spending five years ago . investigation and taxpayer service accounts would grow to $ 1.6 billion , and congress specifically added $ 7.4 million for stepped up criminal investigations of money laundering related to drug traffic . the large increase in customs service air-interdiction funds is also intended to counter smuggling , and the annual appropriations level has more than quadrupled in five years . the $ 196.7 million provided for fiscal 1990 anticipates the purchase of a lockheed p-3 surveillance aircraft and five cessna citation ii jets . despite administration reservations , the plan has had the quiet backing of customs officials as well as influential lawmakers from cessna 's home state , kansas . among legislative provisions attached to the bill is a ban on any treasury department expenditure for enforcement of a 1986 tax provision intended to counter discrimination in employee-benefit plans . small-business interests have lobbied against the so-called section 89 tax rules . repeal is considered likely now , but the treasury department bill has been used as a vehicle to raise the profile of the issue and block any action in the interim . less noticed is a bit of legislative legerdemain by houston republicans on behalf of hei corp. of texas 0 to retroactively `` move '' a missouri hospital from one county to the next to justify higher medicare reimbursements . the provision seeks to wipe out an estimated $ 1.4 million in claims made by the health care finance administration against hei , which owned the hospital in sullivan , mo. , during most of the four-year period -- 1983-1987 -- covered in the amendment . in a separate development , a private meeting is scheduled this morning between house appropriations committee chairman jamie whitten -lrb- d. , miss . -rrb- and sen. dale bumpers -lrb- d. , ark . -rrb- in an effort to end a dispute which for two weeks has delayed action on an estimated $ 44 billion agriculture bill . a house-senate conference reached agreement oct. 5 on virtually all major provisions of the bill , but final settlement has been stalled because of differences between the two men over the fate of a modest arkansas-based program 0 to provide technical information to farmers seeking to reduce their dependence on chemical fertilizers and pesticides . the program 's nonprofit sponsors received $ 900,000 in fiscal 1989 through an extension service grant , but mr. whitten has been adamant in insisting that the program be cut in 1990 . the 79-year-old mississippian takes a more orthodox , entrenched view of agriculture policy than those in the movement to reduce chemical use , but as a master of pork-barrel politics , he is believed to be annoyed as well that the project moved to arkansas from a tennessee center near memphis and the northern mississippi border .