two rival bidders for connaught biosciences extended their offers to acquire the toronto-based vaccine manufacturer friday . institut merieux s.a. , which offered 942 million canadian dollars -lrb- us$ 801.2 million -rrb- , or c$ 37 a share for connaught , said 0 it would extend its bid , due to expire last thursday , to nov. 6 . a c$ 30-a-share bid by ciba-geigy ltd. , a pharmaceutical company based in basel , switzerland , and california-based chiron corp. , a bioresearch concern , was extended to nov. 16 . it had been due to expire friday evening . merieux previously said 0 it would ensure 0 its bid remained open pending a final decision by canadian regulators on whether to approve the takeover . merieux , a vaccine and bioresearch firm based in lyon , france , is controlled 50.1 % by state-owned rhone poulenc s.a . the canadian government previously said 0 merieux 's bid did n't offer enough `` net benefit '' to canada to be approved , and gave merieux an until mid-november to submit additional information . merieux officials said last week that they are `` highly confident '' 0 the offer will be approved once it submits details of its proposed investments to federal regulators . both offers are conditional on regulatory approvals and enough shares being tendered to give the bidders a majority of connaught 's shares outstanding . institut merieux , which already holds a 12.5 % stake in connaught , said that at the close of business thursday , 5,745,188 shares of connaught and c$ 44.3 million face amount of debentures , convertible into 1,826,596 common shares , had been tendered to its offer . at the close of business thursday , ciba-geigy and chiron said 0 11,580 common shares had been tendered to their offer . at last report , connaught had 21.8 million shares outstanding . separately , the ontario supreme court said 0 it will postpone indefinitely a ruling on the lawsuit launched by the university of toronto against connaught in connection with the merieux bid . in a statement prepared by lawyers for the university and connaught , the parties said 0 they agreed that as a result of reaching a c 415 million research accord , `` it is unnecessary that there be a judgment on the merits -lcb- of the case -rcb- at this time . '' lawyers for the two sides were n't immediately available for comment . the university had sought an injunction blocking connaught 's board from recommending or supporting an offer for the company by merieux .