reuben mark , chairman of colgate-palmolive co. , said 0 he is `` comfortable '' with analysts ' estimates that third-quarter earnings rose to between 95 cents and $ 1.05 a share . that compares with per-share earnings from continuing operations of 69 cents the year earlier ; including discontinued operations , per-share was 88 cents a year ago . the per-share estimates mean 0 the consumer-products company 's net income , increased to between $ 69.5 million and $ 76 million , from $ 47.1 million the year-before period . analysts estimate 0 colgate 's world-wide third-quarter sales rose about 8 % to $ 1.29 billion . mr. mark attributed the earnings growth to strong sales in latin america , asia and europe . results were also bolstered by `` a very meaningful '' increase in operating profit by colgate 's u.s. business , mr. mark said 0 . operating profit at colgate 's u.s. household products and personal-care businesses jumped 25 % in the quarter , mr. mark added 0 . he said 0 the improvement was a result of cost savings achieved by consolidating manufacturing operations , blending two sales organizations and focusing more carefully the company 's promotional activities . the estimated improvement in colgate 's u.s. operations took some analysts by surprise . colgate 's household products business , which includes such brands as fab laundry detergent and ajax cleanser , has been a weak performer . analysts estimate 0 colgate 's sales of household products in the u.s. were flat for the quarter , and they estimated operating margins at only 1 % to 3 % . `` if you could say 0 their business in the u.s. was mediocre , but great everywhere else , that would be fine , '' says bonita austin , an analyst with wertheim schroder & co . `` but it 's not mediocre , it 's a real problem . '' mr. mark conceded that colgate 's domestic business , apart from its highly profitable hill 's pet products unit , has lagged . `` we 've done a lot to improve -lcb- u.s. . -rcb- results , and a lot more will be done , '' mr. mark said . `` improving profitability of u.s. operations is an extremely high priority in the company . '' to focus on its global consumer-products business , colgate sold its kendall health-care business in 1988 .