it was richard nixon 's first visit to china in 1972 that set in motion the historic rapprochement between beijing and washington . but the former u.s. president 's sixth visit to china , during which he spoke at length with chinese leaders , was nowhere near as successful at easing strains that have recently afflicted the sino-u.s. relationship . mr. nixon , the most prominent american 0 to come to china since beijing 's bloody suppression of pro-democracy demonstrators in june , harped on international outrage over the massacre . the chinese , in turn , took aim at american `` interference '' in china 's domestic affairs . one official newspaper , legal daily , even directly criticized mr. nixon , who is normally referred to here as an `` old friend . '' the paper accused him of being a leading proponent of `` peaceful evolution , '' a catch phrase 0 to describe what china believes 0 is the policy of western countries to seduce socialist nations into the capitalist sphere . the tension was evident on wednesday evening during mr. nixon 's final banquet toast , normally an opportunity for reciting platitudes about eternal friendship . instead , mr. nixon reminded his host , chinese president yang shangkun , that americans have n't forgiven china 's leaders for the military assault of june 3-4 that killed hundreds , and perhaps thousands , of demonstrators . `` many in the united states , including many friends of china , believe 0 the crackdown was excessive and unjustified , '' mr. nixon told mr. yang , who was directly involved in ordering the attack . `` the events of april through june damaged the respect and confidence which most americans previously had for the leaders of china . '' the chinese responded in an equally undiplomatic fashion . in talks with mr. nixon , chinese leaders expressed no regret for the killings , and even suggested that the u.s. was prominently involved in the demonstrations this spring . in a meeting tuesday , supreme leader , deng xiaoping , told mr. nixon , `` frankly speaking , the u.s. was involved too deeply in the turmoil and counterrevolutionary rebellion which occurred in beijing not long ago . china was the real victim and it is unjust to reprove china for it . '' despite the harsh exchanges , the u.s. and china still seem to be looking for a way 0 to mend relations , which have deteriorated into what mr. nixon referred to as `` the greatest crisis in chinese-american relations '' since his initial visit to china 17 years ago . in his return toast to mr. nixon , mr. yang said 0 the relationship had reached a `` stalemate . '' relations between china and the u.s. have been tense since june 7 , when chinese dissident fang lizhi and his wife , li shuxian , took refuge in the u.s. embassy in beijing . shortly afterwards , mr. bush imposed a series of anti-china sanctions , including suspension of most high-level talks , which could be codified in u.s. congressional legislation in the coming weeks . mr. nixon is traveling in china as a private citizen , but he has made clear that he is an unofficial envoy for the bush administration . mr. nixon met mr. bush and his national security adviser , brent scowcroft , before coming to china on saturday . and he plans to brief the president at the end of the week , u.s. sources said 0 . mr. nixon was to leave china today . according to an american member of the nixon party , the former president raised a number of controversial issues in his 20 hours of talks with top-level chinese officials . these included china 's economic policies , human rights and the question of mr. fang . mr. nixon also proposed that china restore its participation in the fulbright program , a u.s. government-funded academic exchange . china pulled out of the program in july . in his talks , the former president urged china 's leaders to acknowledge that their nation is part of the world community and welcome the infusion of outside contacts and ideas . `` ideas are going over borders , and there 's no sdi ideological weapon that can shoot them down , '' he told a group of americans at the u.s. embassy on wednesday . there are no signs , however , of china 's yielding on key issues . but in one minor matter , mr. nixon appears to have gained a concession . in a meeting with premier li peng on monday , mr. nixon said that he hoped 0 he would n't encounter guards with machine guns during his visit to the u.s. embassy . sure enough , when he arrived at the embassy two days later , the machine-gun-toting guards were gone -- for the first time in five months . a few blocks away , at the u.s. ambassador 's residence , the guards encircling the compound also had discarded their uzi-model arms for the first time since early june . but the guards there retained their pistols , and a large contingent of plainclothes police remained nearby in unmarked cars . moreover , police and soldiers continue to harass americans , who have filed several protests with the foreign ministry in the past week . several times , chinese guards have pointed their automatic rifles at young children of u.s. diplomats and clicked the trigger . the rifles were n't loaded .