chrysler corp. chairman lee a. iacocca said 0 the nation 's no. 3 auto maker will need to close one or two of its assembly plants because of the slowdown hitting the industry . in an interview with the trade journal automotive news , mr. iacocca declined to say which plants will close or when chrysler will make the moves . but he said , `` we have too many plants in our system . so the older or most inefficient capacity has got to go . '' according to industry analysts , chrysler plants most likely to close are the st. louis no. 1 facility , which builds chrysler lebaron and dodge daytona models ; the toledo , ohio , jeep plant , which dates back to the early 1900s ; and two canadian plants that build the jeep wrangler and chrysler 's full-sized vans . chrysler has had to temporarily close the st. louis and toledo plants recently because of excess inventories of vehicles built there . at chrysler 's 1990 model preview last month , chrysler motors president robert a. lutz said 0 the no. 3 auto maker , along with other u.s. manufacturers , might be forced to `` realign ... capacity '' if market demand does n't improve . but mr. iacocca 's remarks are the most specific indication to date of how many plants could be in jeopardy . general motors corp. has signaled that as many as five of its u.s. and canadian plants may not survive the mid-1990s as it struggles to trim its excess vehicle-production capacity . the overcapacity problem has intensified in recent years , with foreign auto makers beginning car and truck production in the u.s. . with companies such as honda motor co. , toyota motor corp. and nissan motor co. running so-called transplant auto operations , japanese auto production in the u.s. will reach one million vehicles this year . `` unless the market goes to 19 million units -- which we all know 0 it 's not going to do -- we have the inescapable fact that the transplants are adding capacity , '' mr. lutz said last month . the japanese-managed plants eventually will have the capacity to build some 2.5 million vehicles in the u.s. and that will translate into `` market share that is going to have to come out of somebody , '' he added 0 . already chrysler has closed the kenosha , wis. , plant 0 it acquired when it bought american motors corp. in 1987 . chrysler has also launched a $ 1 billion cost-cutting program that will cut about 2,300 white-collar workers from the payroll in the next few months .