yet another political scandal is racking japan . but this time it 's hurting opposition as well as ruling-party members . and as it unfolds , it 's revealing some of the more tangled and seamier aspects of japanese society . already , ruling liberal democratic party demands that opposition members testify under oath in parliament have stalled one budget committee session and forced the committee to plan a special two-day investigation at the end of the month . but the scandal itself is so convoluted that ruling-party members are divided between those who want to pursue the matter in hope of undermining the opposition and those who favor leaving well enough alone . `` the opposition can be the most hurt because everyone already figures 0 the ldp is that kind of beast , '' says shigezo hayasaka , former aide to ldp kingmaker kakuei tanaka and now an independent analyst . but , he adds , `` we ca n't tell where it will go at all because we 're still in the middle of it . '' this time , the scandal centers on donations made by the not-quite-mainstream pachinko parlor industry . pachinko , a kind of pinball , is japan 's favorite form of legal gambling . the donations so far appear to be small , especially compared with the huge sums that changed hands in the recruit co . influence-peddling scandal that plagued the ruling party last year . but the implications could be great . pachinko is slightly on the shady side , often linked to the lower ranks of japan 's underworld and regularly at the top of annual lists of tax evaders . recently the industry has faced the threat of new restrictions , and political donations may have been made with the intent to bribe . also , about 60 % of pachinko parlor owners are korean , many of whom maintain close ties with north or south korean residents ' organizations , and donations by such foreign groups are illegal in japan . to many japanese , pachinko is benign or enticingly unsavory . garish neon pachinko marquees blaze from the main streets and narrow alleys of cities and towns across the country . devotees pass hours , watching the lights blink and listening to the metal balls ping , as much to gamble as to get a little time 0 to be anonymous , alone with their thoughts . at 500 yen -lrb- $ 3.60 -rrb- for a handful of balls , pachinko is a common pastime , and has been since it took root as cheap entertainment in the years after world war ii . but the total of all those pinging balls has created an industry with a reported annual income of 13 trillion yen -lrb- almost $ 92 billion -rrb- , or nearly the size of japan 's vaunted automobile industry . and because the pachinko industry is regularly at the top of annual lists for tax evasion , some observers estimate 0 the real income could be as much as 20 trillion yen . if that money were being taxed , it could bring the government a badly needed several trillion yen . in 1984 , an attempt was made to crack down on the industry with tougher restrictions . then , in 1988 , a proposal to keep better track of income by selling prepaid cards for pachinko was fielded in parliament . the proposal split the industry in two , along the lines of national origin : north koreans oppose the plan while south koreans , japanese and taiwanese accept it or are neutral . in august , a conservative weekly magazine reported that a pachinko industry organization donated money to japan socialist party members . the magazine alleged that in making the donations , the pachinko industry may have been offering bribes 0 to win support in the battle against prepaid cards , or it may have been laundering money back and forth between the jsp and the north korean residents ' organization , the chosen soren . the chosen soren and the jsp immediately denied the report . and at first , neither the opposition nor the ldp wanted to pursue the issue . but the press kept it alive ; as with the recruit scandal , lists began circulating with names of people who had received money . within a matter of weeks , less-conservative magazines reported that members of the ruling ldp had received much larger donations from pachinko organizations . so far , though , there have been no allegations that the contributions 0 the ldp members received amounted to bribes . then the two camps upped the ante : reports that chosen soren had donated directly to jsp members were rapidly countered by statements that the south korean residents ' organization had long been donating directly to ldp members . the jsp admitted oct. 13 that its members received about eight million yen from the pachinko organization , and charged ldp members with receiving 125 million yen -lrb- $ 880,000 -rrb- and other opposition parties with taking about 2.5 million yen . on friday , the chief cabinet secretary announced that eight cabinet ministers had received five million yen from the industry , including 450,000 yen -lrb- $ 3,175 -rrb- by prime minister toshiki kaifu . no one has alleged that the donations were by themselves illegal . direct donations from either of the residents ' organizations would be illegal because the groups are defined as foreign , but both groups deny making direct donations . they say 0 it s possible 0 some of their members may be donating privately . the issue is further complicated because although the organizations represent korean residents , those residents were largely born and raised in japan and many speak only japanese . that they retain korean citizenship and ties is a reflection of history -- their parents were shipped in as laborers during the decades when japan occupied korea before world war ii -- and the discrimination that still faces koreans in japanese society . many japanese think it only natural that the organizations or their members would donate to politicians , the way 0 many japanese do , to win favor or support . both residents ' organizations admit to receiving some funding from abroad . but ldp members and supporters of the prepaid card idea tend to speak in innuendo about the jsp 's alleged donations , implying that north korean money would be more suspect than south korean because north korea is communist and south korea is an ally .