ramada inc. revised the terms of its restructuring and extended to feb. 28 , 1990 , the deadline 0 to complete the sale of its hotel business to new world development co. of hong kong and prime motor inns inc. of fairfield , n.j . ramada 's previous plan was derailed by upheaval in the junk-bond market that hindered the offering of $ 400 million in high-yield securities of aztar corp. , the new company that will operate ramada 's casinos in nevada and atlantic city , under the new terms , new world will still pay $ 540 million for ramada 's hotel business , subject to adjustment at closing , but ramada will now reimburse new world for $ 10 million in expenses . prime will still manage ramada 's domestic franchise system when the sale closes . revised terms call for each ramada common share to be exchanged for $ 1 in cash , subject to possible reduction , and one share of aztar common stock . shareholders will also receive one cent per share for the redemption of preferred stock purchase rights . the cash payout will be reduced by 40 % of any amount by which the weighted mean price of ramada 's common stock exceeds $ 14 on the day 0 the transaction closes . the provision will help provide for tax liabilities that may stem from the restructuring . ramada 's stock rose 87.5 cents on the news to close at $ 11.25 in composite new york stock exchange trading . the announcement dispelled some wall street observers ' fears that new world might demand a huge premium for the delay , or scrap the deal entirely . the previous deadline 0 to complete the sale was nov. 30 . one major advantage of the revised plan is that aztar will have far less debt than under the old terms . `` they 'll go from being one of the most leveraged to one of the least leveraged casino companies , '' said daniel lee , an analyst with drexel burnham lambert inc . mr. lee values the package at between $ 15 and $ 20 a share , based on current trading prices of other casino-company stocks . the much-revised restructuring , which was first announced in october 1988 , must again be approved by shareholders and state casino regulators in nevada and new jersey . financing plans include raising $ 170 million in debt secured by the company 's holdings in new jersey . in may , ramada sold its marie callender pie shops inc. unit to a group of private investors as part of its plan to focus on its casinos in atlantic city and in las vegas and laughlin , nev .