the bakersfield supermarket went out of business last may . the reason was not high interest rates or labor costs . nor was there a shortage of customers in the area , the residential inwood section of northern manhattan . the business closed when the owner was murdered by robbers . the owner was israel ortiz , a 29-year-old entrepreneur and father of two . in his first year of operating the store 0 he bought for $ 220,000 , mr. ortiz was robbed at least twice at gunpoint . the first time he was shot in the hand as he chased the robbers outside . the second time he identified two robbers , who were arrested and charged . two weeks later -- perhaps in retaliation -- mr. ortiz was shot three times in the back , during what police classified as a third robbery attempt . that was his reward for working until 11 p.m. seven days a week to cover his $ 3,000 a month rent . for providing what his customers described as very personal and helpful service . for creating a focus for neighborhood life . israel ortiz is only one of the thousands of entrepreneurs and their employees who will be injured or killed by crime this year . the u.s. bureau of justice statistics reports that almost 2 % of all retail-sales workers suffer injuries from crime each year , almost twice the national average and about four times the rate for teachers , truck drivers , medical workers and door-to-door salespeople . only a few other occupations have higher reported rates of criminal injury , such as police , bartenders and taxi drivers . yet these figures show only the most visible part of the problem . recent data from new york city provide more of the picture . while by no means the highest crime community in the country , new york is a prime example of a city where crime strangles small-business development . a survey of small businesses there was conducted this spring by interface , a policy research organization . it gave 1,124 businesses a questionnaire and analyzed 353 responses . the survey found that over a three-year period 22 % of the firms said 0 employees or owners had been robbed on their way to or from work or while on the job . seventeen percent reported their customers being robbed . crime was the reason that 26 % reported difficulty recruiting personnel and that 19 % said 0 they were considering moving . more than one-third of the responding businesses said 0 they suffer from drug dealing and loitering near their premises . in brooklyn and the bronx , one out of four commercial firms is burglarized each year . industrial neighborhoods fare even worse , with burglary rates twice the citywide average . crime is clearly more deadly to small-scale entrepreneurship than to big businesses . two decades ago , the small business administration reported yale prof. albert reiss 's landmark study of crime against 2,500 small businesses drawn from national irs records . he found that monetary crime losses , as a proportion of gross receipts , were 37 times higher for small businesses than for large ones . the new york study 's companies averaged 27 employees ; their annual crime losses averaged about $ 15,000 , with an additional $ 8,385 annual cost in security -- enough money to hire at least one more worker . the costs of crime may also be enough to destroy a struggling business . whatever the monetary crime losses , they may not be nearly as important to entrepreneurs as the risk of personal injury . after repeated gun robberies , some entrepreneurs may give up a business out of fear for their lives . one washington couple recently sold their liquor store after 34 years in business that included four robbery deaths and 16 robberies or burglaries on the premises . these findings illustrate the vicious cycle that national institute of justice director james k. stewart calls `` crime causing poverty . '' underclass neighborhoods offer relatively few employment opportunities , contributing to the poverty of local residents . small neighborhood businesses could provide more jobs , if crime were not so harmful to creating and maintaining those businesses . this may help explain why small businesses create 65 % of all jobs nationally , but only 22 % of jobs in a crime-ridden city like new york . bigger business can often better afford to minimize the cost of crime . the new york study found that the cost of security measures in firms with fewer than five employees was almost $ 1,000 per worker , compared with one-third that amount for firms with more than 10 employees . the shift of retailing to large shopping centers has created even greater economies of scale for providing low-crime business environments . private security guards and moonlighting police can invoke the law of trespass to regulate access to these quasi-public places . since 1984 , in fact , revenues of the 10 largest guard companies , primarily serving such big businesses , have increased by almost 62 % . few small neighborhood businesses , however , can afford such protection , even in collaboration with other local merchants . in the neighborhoods with the highest crime rates , small business generally relies on the public police force for protection . this creates several problems . one is that there are not enough police to satisfy small businesses . the number one proposal for reducing crime in the new york survey was to put more police on foot or scooter patrol , suggested by more than two-thirds of the respondents . only 22 % supported private security patrols funded by the merchants themselves . a second problem is the persistent frustration of false alarms , which can make urban police less than enthusiastic about responding to calls from small businesses . only half the new york small businesses surveyed , for their part , are satisfied with the police response 0 they receive . some cities , including new york , have experimented with special tax districts for commercial areas that provide additional patrols funded by local businesses . but this raises added cost barriers to urban entrepreneurship . another solution 0 cities might consider is giving special priority to police patrols of small-business areas . for cities losing business to suburban shopping centers , it may be a wise business investment to help keep those jobs and sales taxes within city limits . increased patrolling of business zones makes sense because urban crime is heavily concentrated in such `` hot spots '' of pedestrian density . with national institute of justice support , the minneapolis police and the crime control institute are currently testing the effects of such a strategy , comparing its deterrence value with traditional random patrols . small-business patrols would be an especially helpful gesture whenever a small-business person is scheduled to testify against a robbery suspect . while no guarantee , an increased police presence might even deter further attacks . it might even have saved the life , and business , of israel ortiz . mr. sherman is a professor of criminology at the university of maryland and president of the crime control institute in washington , d.c .