h. marshall schwarz was named chairman and chief executive officer of u.s. trust corp. , a private-banking firm with assets under management of about $ 17 billion . mr. schwarz , 52 years old , will succeed daniel p. davison feb. 1 , soon after mr. davison reaches the company 's mandatory retirement age of 65 . mr. schwarz , who is president of u.s. trust , will be succeeded in that post by jeffrey s. maurer , 42 , who is executive vice president in charge of the company 's asset-management group . u.s. trust , a 136-year-old institution that is one of the earliest high-net worth banks in the u.s. , has faced intensifying competition from other firms that have established , and heavily promoted , private-banking businesses of their own . as a result , u.s. trust 's earnings have been hurt . but mr. schwarz welcomes the competition in u.s. trust 's flagship businesses , calling it `` flattery . '' mr. schwarz says 0 the competition `` broadens the base of opportunity for us . '' other firms `` are dealing with the masses . i do n't believe 0 they have the culture '' 0 to adequately service high-net-worth individuals , he adds 0 . u.s. trust recently introduced certain mutual-fund products , which allow it to serve customers with minimum deposits of $ 250,000 . previously , the company advertised at the $ 2 million level . `` we have always taken smaller accounts , but now we are looking for smaller accounts that will grow , '' mr. schwarz says 0 . `` our bread and butter is still the $ 2 million to $ 20 million account , '' he says . the new services allow u.s. trust to cater to the `` new wealth , '' mr. schwarz says 0 . quarterly net income this year has risen just over comparable periods in 1988 , when year-end net was below the 1987 level . in this year 's third quarter , for example , net was $ 10.5 million , or $ 1.05 a share , compared with $ 10.3 million , or $ 1.02 a share , a year earlier . assets as of sept. 30 fell to $ 2.46 billion from about $ 2.77 billion . `` we will have a reasonably flat year this year , '' mr. schwarz says . mr. schwarz also said 0 costs associated with u.s. trust 's planned move to midtown manhattan from wall street will continue to be a drag on earnings through 1990 . mr. schwarz 's great-grandfather founded the new york toy store f.a.o. schwarz , but his family no longer has ties to the company . mr. schwarz 's father was a u.s. trust trustee until 1974 . u.s. trust also created a four-member office of the chairman , effective feb. 1 . it will include messrs. schwarz and maurer . donald m. roberts , 54 , treasurer , and frederick s. wonham , 58 , who takes responsibility for the funds-service group , were named vice chairmen and will serve in the office of the chairman . mr. roberts continues as treasurer , and mr. wonham remains responsible for the offices of comptroller , planning , marketing and general services . frederick b. taylor , 48 , also was named a vice chairman and chief investment officer , a new post . he previously held similar responsibilities . mr. taylor also was named a director , increasing the board to 22 , but is not part of the new office of the chairman . james e. bacon , 58 , executive vice president , who has directed the funds-service group , will retire .