as helen boehm , who owns an art porcelain company , sipped her luncheon cocktail , she reeled off the names of a few pals -- prince charles , princess diana , sarah ferguson , john kluge , milton petrie . then , flashing a diamond ring as big as the ritz -lrb- `` my day diamond , darling '' -rrb- , she told her two companions that she is on the `` board '' of the vatican museum in rome . as it turns out , the board has a lot of important members , including winton blount -lrb- former postmaster general of the u.s. -rrb- , mrs. henry gaisman -lrb- widow of the inventor of auto-strop razor -rrb- and vincent murphy -lrb- an investment banker at merrill lynch & co . -rrb- but mrs. boehm did n't mention any of them . `` helen boehm has a way with names , '' says james revson , a gossip columnist for newsday -lrb- and son of joseph revson , a founder of revlon -rrb- . like which are droppable and which are not . with the fall social season well under way , name-droppers are out in force , trying to impress their betters and sometimes put down their lessers . but the truth is that almost everyone , from real-estate agents to city fathers , name-drops ; and a surprising number of people have an ancient uncle who claims 0 he lived next door to the cartoonist who did the katzenjammer kids . -lrb- in case you have forgotten , his name was rudolph dirks . -rrb- `` name-dropping is pervasive and getting more so as society becomes more complex and alienating , '' says herbert freudenberger , a new york psychoanalyst , with a high-powered clientele . `` it can be an avenue of entrance to a certain sector of society ... . it provides some people a needed sense of affiliation and can help open up a conversation with someone 0 you do n't know . '' like the long island matron in the theater district the other day who swore to a stranger that she once met liza minnelli . `` i was having a drink in sardi 's , when all of a sudden i saw a woman 's backside coming up the steps on the second floor and she was wearing sequined slacks . i knew 0 it was someone important , so i followed her into the ladies room and sure enough , it was liza . so i said , ` hello . ' and she said , ` hello . ' can you imagine ? liza said hello to me . '' some people must drop names -- call it an irresistible impulse . `` they ca n't help talking about the big important people 0 they know , even if they do n't really know them , '' says dr. freudenberger . beauregard houston-montgomery , a new york writer who changed his name from william stretch in 1980 , is an inveterate name-dropper . `` i do it innately and pathologically , and while it may occasionally get me into trouble , it 's also gotten me access to parties and society , '' he says . name-dropping recently helped mr. houston-montgomery crash a party 0 fame magazine threw for 100 of the 2,809 people mentioned in the diaries of the late andy warhol . `` i guess 0 i might have asked beauregard to leave , but he drops so many good names , 0 we decided to let him stay , '' says steven greenberg , publisher of fame . `` after all , warhol was the ultimate namedropper , dropping five a day in his diaries . and beauregard was mentioned twice -- although very briefly and in passing . '' mr. houston-montgomery says that at the party he waved to malcolm forbes , publisher of forbes magazine -lrb- `` we've been in the columns together '' -rrb- , mary boone , a new york art dealer -lrb- `` i think 0 she knows me , but i 'm not sure '' -rrb- and bridget fonda , the actress -lrb- `` she knows me , but we 're not really the best of friends '' -rrb- . mr. revson , the gossip columnist , says 0 there are people who actually plan whose names they are going to drop before attending a party . these droppers do n't flaunt only their friendships with the trumps , brooke astor or georgette mosbacher . `` they even drop semi-obscure names like wolfgang flottl , whom everybody these days apparently has heard of but no one really knows , '' says mr. revson . `` it 's the one-upsmanship of name-dropping that counts . '' but name-dropping has other benefits , often civic . in the name of civic pride and from the desire to nullify a negative image , some city promoters seek to link their municipality with the most recognizable names 0 the city has to offer . take cleveland . it has gotten a bad rep because its once heavily polluted cuyahoga river caught fire , because former mayor ralph perk set his hair on fire with an acetylene torch and because its proposed rock 'n' roll hall of fame was recently refused an urban-development grant . some people call it `` the mistake on the lake '' -- lake erie , that is . `` it helps to point out how many important people came through cleveland on their way to the top , '' says george miller , executive director of the new cleveland campaign , a nonprofit organization devoted to citing the city 's strengths . mr. miller notes that actor paul newman 's family owned a sporting-goods store in cleveland , that the late actress margaret hamilton , who played the bad witch in `` the wizard of oz , '' once ran a nursery school in cleveland and that comedian bob hope 's father , a stonemason , once worked on a church next to severence hall , cleveland 's main concert hall . `` power names like that do n't hurt the city 's reputation , '' mr. miller says . in hollywood , an average family can gain cachet from moving into a home vacated by the famous or near famous . `` why we even just sold a three-bedroom house in van nuys and were able to keep the price firm in a weak real-estate market by noting that the original lone ranger lived there , '' says david rambo , a sales associate with jon douglas co. , a los angeles real-estate agency . `` most people ca n't even remember his name . '' -lrb- it is john hart . -rrb- mr. rambo says that a 3.2-acre property overlooking the san fernando valley is priced at $ 4 million because the late actor erroll flynn once lived there . `` if flynn had n't lived there , the property might have been priced $ 1 million lower , '' says mr. rambo , noting that flynn 's house has been bulldozed , and only the swimming pool remains . press agents and public-relations practitioners are notorious name-droppers . and some even do it with malice aforethought . len kessler , a financial publicist in new york , sometimes uses it to get the attention of journalists who try to avoid him . he says that when dan dorfman , a financial columnist with usa today , has n't returned his phone calls , he leaves messages with mr. dorfman 's office saying that he has an important story on donald trump , meshulam riklis or marvin davis . he admits 0 he has no story on any of them on these occasions . `` but it does get him to return my calls , and it makes me feel better for the times 0 he 's given me the brushoff , '' mr. kessler says . there are , of course , obvious dangers to blatant , unsubstantiated name-dropping . jeffry thal , a publicity agent for the lantz office in los angeles , warns that dropping the wrong name labels the dropper as a fake and a fraud . `` get caught and you 're dead in the water , '' says mr. thal . mr. thal says that elizabeth taylor , a client , `` hates being called ` liz . ' ... if directors or producers phone me and say 0 they know ` liz , ' i know 0 they 've never met her . she prefers ` elizabeth . ' '' in new york society , pat buckley , the very social wife of author william buckley , has the nicknames `` mrs. buckles '' and `` patsy . '' and her husband sometimes calls her `` ducky . '' `` but call her ` patty , ' and it 's a sure giveaway 0 you 're not in her circle , because she does n't use that name , '' says joan kron , editor-in-chief of avenue magazine , a monthly publication sent to all the right names . john spencer churchill , a nephew of the late sir winston churchill , former prime minister of great britain , is n't that impressed with most name-droppers 0 he meets . that 's because they only drop `` mere names , '' says 0 mr. churchill . currently writing his memoirs , mr. churchill , an artist , tells how tycoons such as the late jean paul getty , the oil billionnaire , were , in fact , known only by one initial , their last . `` when you 're at the club , you ask whether they 've spoken to ` g . ' now they know who you mean and you know who you mean . but no one else does . now that 's name-dropping , if you know what i mean .