usx corp. and its japanese partner , kobe steel ltd. , agreed to form a joint venture to build a new plant 0 to produce hot-dipped galvanized sheet products , mainly for the automotive market . terms were n't disclosed for the plant , which will have annual capacity of 600,000 tons . the move by the nation 's largest steelmaker follows a string of earlier announcements by other major steel companies . bethlehem steel corp. , ltv corp. and armco inc. all have plans to build additional lines for such coated corrosion-resistant steel . the surge in production , analysts say 0 , raises questions about capacity outpacing demand . they note that most of the new plants will come on line in 1992 , when the current import trade restraint program ends , which could result in more imports . `` there 's too much capacity , '' contended charles bradford , an analyst with merrill lynch capital markets . `` i do n't think 0 there 's anyone not building one . '' he does add , however , that transplanted japanese car makers are boosting the levels of u.s.-made steel in their autos , instead of relying heavily on imported steel . that trend could increase demand for hot-dipped galvanized sheet . the hot-dipped galvanized segment is one of the fastest-growing and most profitable segments of the steel market , coveted by all major integrated steelmakers wanting to maintain an edge over smaller minimills and reconstructed mills -- those spun off to employees . indeed , usx said 0 it expects the market for coated sheet steel to reach 12 million tons annually by 1992 , compared with 10.2 million tons shipped in 1988 . for the first eight months of 1989 , analysts say 0 shipments of hot-dipped galvanized steel increased about 8 % from a year earlier , while overall steel shipments were up only 2.4 % . usx and kobe steel hope to reach a definitive agreement establishing the 50-50 partnership by the end of the year , with construction tentatively slated for the spring of 1990 and production by 1992 . usx already has six lines in existing plants producing hot-dipped galvanized steel , but this marks the first so-called greenfield plant for such production . moreover , it will boost by 50 % usx 's current hot-dipped capacity of 1,275,000 tons . the company said 0 it does n't expect the new line 's capacity to adversely affect the company 's existing hot-dipped galvanizing lines . steelmakers have also been adding capacity of so-called electrogalvanized steel , which is another way 0 to make coated corrosion-resistant steel . one of the advantages of the hot-dipped process is that it allows the steel to be covered with a thicker coat of zinc more quickly .