this is slightly adapted from remarks oct. 7 by former secretary of state george p. shultz to an alumni gathering at the stanford business school , where he has returned to the faculty : i was struck a couple of years ago by the drug-interdiction effort in the bahamas . we had intercepted during the year an estimated $ 5 billion street value of cocaine . i do n't know how much got through . nobody has any credible estimate . the gnp of the bahamas is probably somewhere between one and two billion dollars . so you get an idea of the leverage there and elsewhere that our market for drugs has brought about . i welcome the emphasis that is now being put on the drug problem . the efforts to get to the people who are addicted , try to rehabilitate them ; if they can not be rehabilitated , at least to contain them ; to educate people , to strongly discourage use of drugs by people who are casual users and first users , to stop this process among the young -- all of these things i think 0 are extremely important . but , i have to tell you that it seems to me that the conceptual base of the current program is flawed and the program is not likely to work . the conceptual base -- a criminal-justice approach -- is the same that i have worked through before , in the nixon administration when i was budget director and secretary of the treasury with jurisdiction over the customs . we designed a comprehensive program , and we worked hard on it . in the reagan administration we designed a comprehensive program ; we worked very hard on it . our international efforts were far greater than ever before . you 're looking at a guy whose motorcade was attacked in bolivia by the drug terrorists , so i 'm personally a veteran of this war . what we have before us now is essentially the same program but with more resources plowed into all of the efforts to enforce and control . these efforts wind up creating a market where the price vastly exceeds the cost . with these incentives , demand creates its own supply and a criminal network along with it . it seems to me 0 we 're not really going to get anywhere until we can take the criminality out of the drug business and the incentives for criminality out of it . frankly , the only way 0 i can think of 0 to accomplish this is to make it possible for addicts to buy drugs at some regulated place at a price that approximates their cost . when you do that you wipe out the criminal incentives , including , i might say , the incentive that the drug pushers have to go around and get kids addicted , so that they create a market for themselves . they wo n't have that incentive because they wo n't have that market . so i think 0 the conceptual base needs to be thought out in a different way . if i am catching your attention , then read a bold and informative article in this september 's issue of science by ethan nadelmann on this subject . we need at least to consider and examine forms of controlled legalization of drugs . i find it very difficult to say that . sometimes at a reception or cocktail party i advance these views and people head for somebody else . they do n't even want to talk to you . i know that i 'm shouting into the breeze here as far as what we 're doing now . but i feel that if somebody does n't get up and start talking about this now , the next time around , when we have the next iteration of these programs , it will still be true that everyone is scared to talk about it . no politician wants to say what i just said , not for a minute .