benjamin jacobson & sons has been the new york stock exchange specialist firm in charge of trading stock in ual corp. and its predecessors since the early 1930s . but the firm has never had a day like yesterday . at first ual did n't open because of an order imbalance . when it did a half-hour into the session , it was priced at $ 150 a share , down more than $ 28 from monday 's close . it sank further to as low as $ 145 , but a big rally developed in the last half hour , pushing the stock back up to close at $ 170 , down just $ 8.375 from monday . in the process , 4.9 million shares traded , making ual the second most active issue on the big board . munching pizza when they could and yelling until their voices gave out , the two benjamin jacobson specialists at the big board 's ual trading post yesterday presided over what can only be described as a financial free-for-all . `` it was chaotic . but we like to call it ` controlled chaos , ' '' said 0 47-year-old robert j. jacobson jr. , grandson of the firm 's founder . he manned the ual post yesterday with christopher bates , 33 , an energetic long islander who 's a dead ringer for actor nicolas cage . who was doing all the selling ? `` options traders , arbitrage traders -- everyone , '' said mr. bates , cooling down with a carton of apple juice after the close yesterday . added mr. jacobson , `` there were some pretty bad losses in the stock . '' big board traders said 0 a 200,000-share buy order at $ 150 a share entered by bear , stearns & co. , which was active in ual stock all day , is what set off the ual crowd in the late afternoon . a subsequent rally in ual helped the staggering stock market stage an astonishing recovery from an 80-point deficit to finish only slightly below monday 's close . both jacobson traders , who had been hoping 0 ual trading would get back to normal , read the news about the unraveling of ual takeover plans on the train into work yesterday morning . the news told them 0 it would be a while longer before ual resumed trading like a regular airline stock after months of gyrations . when mr. jacobson walked into the office at 7:30 a.m. edt , he announced : `` ok , buckle up . '' messrs. jacobson and bates walked on the big board floor at about 8:45 a.m. yesterday and immediately spotted trouble . already entered in the big board 's computers and transmitted to their post were sell orders for 65,000 ual shares . the ual news had already caused a selling furor in the so-called third market , in which firms buy and sell stock away from the exchange floor . ual , which closed on the big board monday at $ 178.375 a share , traded in the third market afterward as low as $ 158 a share . there were rumors of $ 148-a-share trades . in the 45 minutes before the 9:30 opening bell , the jacobson specialists kept getting sell orders , heavier than they imagined 0 . and at 9:15 , they posted a $ 135 to $ 155 `` first indication , '' or the price range in which the stock would probably open . that range was quickly narrowed to $ 145 to $ 155 , although traders surrounding the post were told that $ 148 to $ 150 would be the likely target . when ual finally opened a half hour late , some 400,000 shares traded at $ 150 . there was `` selling pressure from everyone , '' said 0 one trader . this month 's friday-the-13th market plunge spurred by ual news was n't as bad for the jacobson specialists as yesterday 's action . on that earlier day , the stock 's trading was halted at a critical time so the specialists could catch their breath . not yesterday . mr. jacobson , his gray hair flying , did n't wear out his red-white-and-blue sneakers , but he sweat so much 0 he considered sending out for a new shirt . mr. bates usually handles day-to-day ual trading on his own . but yesterday , the heavy trading action eventually consumed not only messrs. jacobson and bates but four other jacobson partners , all doing their specialist-firm job of tugging buyers and sellers together and adjusting prices to accommodate the market . about 30 floor traders crammed near the ual post most of the day , and probably hundreds more came and went -- a `` seething mass , '' as one trader described it . the 4.9 million-share volume flowing through the jacobson specialist operation was about five times normal for the stock . the heavy buying in the last half hour led the specialists to take special steps . the bear stearns order that marked the late-day turnaround caused a `` massive buying effort '' as ual jumped $ 20 a share to $ 170 in the last half hour , said 0 mr. bates . with 15 seconds of trading 0 to go , mr. jacobson , with what voice he had left , announced to the trading mob : `` we 're going to trade one price on the bell . '' that meant 0 no trading would occur in the final seconds , as a way of making sure that last-second orders are n't subjected to a sudden price swing that would upset customers . about 11,000 shares sold at $ 170 on the bell , representing about eight to 10 late orders , the specialists estimate 0 . big board traders praised the jacobson specialists for getting through yesterday without a trading halt . in chicago , a ual spokesman , `` by way of policy , '' declined to comment on the company 's stock or the specialists ' performance . leaving the exchange at about 5 p.m. , the jacobson specialists made no predictions about how trading might go today . said 0 earl ellis , a jacobson partner who got involved in the ual action , `` it all starts all over again '' today .