dale lang , who this week completed the acquisition of the publisher of ms. and sassy , is candid about the challenge 0 he is taking on . mr. lang admits that ms. is `` in dire straits '' and that sassy needs big promotional dollars 0 to keep it alive . but the 57-year-old publisher has moved quickly and boldly to deal with the magazines ' problems . last friday , he told the staff of ms. that the magazine in january would begin publishing without advertising . mr. lang will do away with expensive circulation drives , not to mention sales staff , and attempt to publish the 17-year-old magazine supported by circulation revenue alone . `` any fool can publish a money-losing magazine . i want to publish one that succeeds , '' said mr. lang . `` for ms. , it 's time 0 to publish for the reader , not the advertiser . '' as for sassy , which competes directly with news corp. 's seventeen magazine , mr. lang says that in the next two years he will spend $ 6 million promoting and improving the magazine . though sassy has grown quickly since its debut in march 1988 , it has been the target of conservative lobbyists and skittish advertisers who bristled at its frank editorial matter on teen-age problems . mr. lang said 0 the former australian owners of sassy were `` blind-sided by the moral majority ... . their reaction was to do nothing and ride it out . '' he said 0 sassy will keep its irreverent tone , but added , `` we will keep a close watch on the editorial content of the magazine . '' sassy already has recovered ; circulation has quickly passed the 500,000 mark and advertising pages have stabilized this year at more than 300 . what 's more , mr. lang says 0 he has what all publishers wish for : a bona fide niche . `` seventeen is written more for mothers , not their daughters , '' said mr. lang . `` but sassy has a different spirit . it gets more mail in a month than mccall 's got in a year , and it 's not from mothers . i feel about sassy like i did about working woman 10 years ago . '' mr. lang took on ms. and sassy with the acquisition of matilda publications inc. by his newly formed lang communications . lang owns 70 % of matilda , while citicorp owns the rest through its citicorp venture capital partners . two weeks ago , citicorp and mr. lang pumped $ 800,000 into matilda just to keep the doors open . industry observers have congratulated mr. lang on what some call his `` courageous '' handling of ms. , but his track record in magazine publishing in general has gotten mixed reviews . besides ms. and sassy , closely held lang communications includes success , a magazine for entrepreneurs and small businesses , and working woman and working mother , two monthly magazines . working woman , with circulation near one million , and working mother , with 625,000 circulation , are legitimate magazine success stories . the magazine success , however , was for years lackluster and unfocused . only recently has it been attractively redesigned and its editorial product improved . success is expected to gain at least because of the recent folding of rival venture , another magazine for growing companies . working woman and working mother have operated as part of working woman\/mccall 's group , a less-than-successful joint venture between mr. lang and time warner inc . the joint venture is being undone , with mccall 's magazine being sold last summer to the new york times co. 's magazine group for about $ 80 million , and time warner agreeing to sell back its 50 % interest in working woman and working mother to mr. lang . executives at time inc . magazine co. , a subsidiary of time warner , have said 0 the joint venture with mr. lang was n't a good one . the venture , formed in 1986 , was supposed to be time 's low-cost , safe entry into women 's magazines . mr. lang surprised time soon after joining forces when he said 0 he would negotiate rates individually with advertisers , a practice common in broadcasting but considered taboo by magazine publishers . in addition , mccall 's put in a less than stellar performance . until a recent comeback , it saw steep losses in ad pages and circulation . time executives complained about the shoddy editorial quality , and in the end , one time executive who asked not to be identified said , `` frankly , mccall 's and the joint venture were an embarrassment . '' mr. lang feels that time 's priorities changed . `` their management changed right after -lcb- the venture was formed -rcb- , and i do n't think 0 they were comfortable getting into the competitive wars of women 's service magazines . '' today , mr. lang believes 0 his magazines will offer what many women 's magazines do n't . `` we write straight for women on their level , '' he said . `` we do n't have passive readers . '' mr. lang points out that even success , in part , fits the company 's image , since about 30 % of its readership is female . mr. lang has named carol taber , 43 , as group publisher of new york-based lang communications . she will oversee working woman , working mother and success magazines , and retain her post as publisher of working woman . the sale price of mccall 's -- twice what mr. lang originally paid for it -- will finance lang communications ' buy-back of time warner 's 50 % interest in working woman and working mother . mr. lang says 0 he is n't scouting new acquisitions , at least for now . `` we would have to go outside to banks to get the money and i am not ready to do that , '' he said . `` besides , we have enough on our plate . there is plenty of work 0 to be done on what we have .