magazine publishers are facing spiraling costs and a glut of new titles . but even a raft of recent failures is n't stopping them from launching new publications . at the american magazine conference here , publishers are plenty worried about the industry 's woes . but they are also talking about new magazines . for example , toronto-based telemedia inc. will publish eating well , a new food and health magazine due out next summer . new york-based hearst corp. this fall plans to publish its first issue of 9 months , a magazine for expectant mothers , and has already launched american home . and time warner inc. is developing a spinoff of time magazine aimed at kids , on the heels of its successful sports illustrated for kids . over the past four years , the number of consumer magazines has increased by an average of 80 magazines annually , according to donald kummerfeld , president of the magazine publishers of america . `` this is an impressive show of faith in the future of the magazine industry , '' said mr. kummerfeld . `` entrepreneurs do n't rush to get into a stagnant or declining industry . '' and despite the recent tough advertising climate , industry figures released at the meeting here indicate 0 things may be turning around . for the first nine months , advertising pages in consumer magazines tracked by the publishers information bureau increased 4 % from the same period last year , to 125,849 pages . total magazine ad revenue for the same period increased 12 % to $ 4.6 billion . though for some magazines categories a tough advertising climate persists , the industry in general is doing well compared with the newspaper industry . though some magazines are thriving , the magazine publishing industry remains a risky business . within the same nine months , news corp. closed down in fashion , a once-promising young woman 's fashion magazine , drake publications inc. has folded the long-troubled venture magazine , and lang communications has announced 0 ms. magazine , after 17 years , will no longer carry advertising as of january . lang is cutting costs and will attempt to operate the magazine with only subscription revenue . meanwhile , american health partners , publisher of american health magazine , is deep in debt , and owen lipstein , founder and managing partner , is being forced to sell the magazine to reader 's digest association inc . mr. lipstein 's absence from the meeting here raised speculation that the sale is in trouble . mr. lipstein said in a telephone interview from new york that the sale was proceeding as planned . `` the magazine is strong . it 's simply the right time 0 to do what we are doing , '' mr. lipstein said . `` magazines can no longer be considered institutions , '' said james autry , president of meredith corp. 's magazine group . `` publishers will find that some magazines have served their purpose and should die , '' he added . `` magazines could , like other brands , find that they have only a limited life . '' there are also indications that the number of magazine entrepreneurs , traditionally depended upon to break new ground with potentially risky start-ups , are dwindling . more than ever , independent magazines and small publishing groups are being gobbled up by larger publishing groups , such as american express publishing corp. , a unit of american express co. , and conde nast publications inc. , a unit of advance publications inc. , which are consolidating in order to gain leverage with advertisers . some entrepreneurs are still active , though . gerry ritterman , president of new york-based network publishing corp. , earlier this year sold his soap opera digest magazine to rupert murdoch 's news corp . mr. ritterman said that in the next six months he will take $ 50 million from the soap opera digest sale to acquire new magazines . he would not reveal which magazines he is considering . `` the magazines 0 i am looking for are underdeveloped , '' said mr. ritterman . `` they could be old or new , but they are magazines whose editorial quality needs to be improved . they will be the next hot magazines .