the television units of paramount communications inc. and mca inc. are exploring the possibility of offering prime-time programming to independent stations two nights a week , industry executives say 0 . although such a venture would n't match the `` fourth network '' created by news corp. 's fox broadcasting co. , mca and paramount may have similar ambitions . fox , which also owns six tv stations , provides programs three nights a week to those and other affiliates . paramount domestic tv and mca tv formed a joint venture last month , named premier advertiser sales , 0 to sell advertising in programs syndicated by both companies , such as `` star trek : the next generation , '' `` charles in charge '' and `` friday the 13th : the series . '' a spokeswoman for paramount said 0 the company does n't comment on speculation . calls to shelly schwab , president of mca tv , were n't returned . the two companies , like fox , already have their own tv stations . mca owns wwor in new york and paramount last month agreed to purchase a 79 % stake in the tvx broadcast group from salomon inc. in a deal valued at $ 140 million . tvx owns five stations , including wtxf , a fox affiliate , in philadelphia . one broadcasting executive familiar with the project said 0 the co-venture would target stations affiliated with fox because fox has the desirable independent stations in most of the key cities . currently , fox supplies programs on saturdays , sundays and mondays , although the company plans to expand to other weeknights . jamie kellner , president of fox broadcasting , said , `` we believe 0 the partnership of fox , its affiliates and advertisers is succeeding and will continue to grow . '' another fox official , who declined to be identified , said 0 fox was n't pleased by the possible paramount-mca venture into prime-time programming . `` to make the venture work , they would need fox affiliates , '' he said . `` we spent a lot of time and money in building our group of stations , '' he said , adding that fox does n't `` appreciate '' another company attempting to usurp its station lineup . fox said 0 it plans to offer its stations movies , theatrical and made-for-tv ventures , probably on wednesdays , sometime next year . it is also planning another night of original series . paramount and mca , according to the broadcasting executive , plan to offer theatrical movies produced separately by paramount and mca for wednesdays and perhaps a block of original shows fridays . the executive said 0 paramount and mca have also held discussions with chris-craft industries ' broadcasting unit , which owns five independent stations in cities such as los angeles , san francisco and portland , ore . a chris-craft station manager said 0 there have been no formal talks . `` i think 0 it 's to fox 's advantage to be associated with the paramount-mca venture , '' said michael conway , station manager of wtxf , the tvx station that is a fox affiliate . mr. conway said 0 the fox shows appearing on nights when paramount-mca shows would n't be offered could be promoted on the programs produced by paramount-mca . michael fisher , general manager of ktxl , a fox affiliate in sacramento , calif. , said , `` the real question is whether the paramount-mca offering is practical . it is n't ... . why would i consider giving up fox , a proven commodity , '' for an unknown venture ? fox attracts a young audience with shows such as `` married ... with children , '' its most successful series .