financial markets took a midweek break from their recent wild gyrations with stock prices falling modestly , bond prices posting tiny gains and the dollar almost unchanged . the dow jones industrial average lost 5.94 points to 2653.28 in moderate trading . long-term treasury bonds rose slightly despite the arrival on the market of $ 4.52 billion in 30-year bonds offered by the resolution funding corp. as part of the government 's bailout of the savings and loan industry . the dollar was barely changed against the west german mark and up marginally against the japanese yen . yesterday 's sluggish action was in marked contrast to the rearing and plunging of stock prices tuesday after the proposed buy-out of ual corp. once again collapsed . traders said 0 the stock market 's lurching moves have prompted many investors to head for the sidelines until it regains some semblance of stability . although bond prices were n't as volatile on tuesday trading as stock prices , traders nevertheless said 0 action also was much slower yesterday in the treasury market . bond investors paid close attention to comments by federal reserve chairman alan greenspan , who was testifying before a congressional hearing , but were n't able to extract many clues about the future course of the fed 's monetary policy . many analysts are expecting the fed to lower interest rates at least once more before the end of the year . investors now are awaiting today 's release of the preliminary estimate of third-quarter gross national product . economists predict 0 the report will show economic growth of about 2.5 % in the third quarter , which would have little effect on financial markets . but an unexpected deviation either way could roil bond and currency markets . in major market activity : stock prices slipped lower in moderate trading . volume on the new york stock exchange totaled 155.7 million shares . but advancing issues on the big board were ahead of decliners 784 to 700 . bond prices inched higher . the treasury 's benchmark 30-year issue rose less than an eighth of a point , or less than $ 1.25 for each $ 1,000 of face amount . the yield on the issue stood at 7.88 % . the dollar was virtually unchanged . in late new york trading the u.s. currency was quoted at 1.8353 marks and 141.52 yen , compared with 1.8355 marks and 141.45 yen tuesday .