bargain hunters helped stock prices break a weeklong losing streak while bond prices and the dollar inched higher . the dow jones industrial average gained 6.76 points to 2603.48 in light trading after losing more than 92 points last week . bond prices continued to edge higher in anticipation of more news showing a slower economy . although the dollar rose slightly against most major currencies , the focus in currency markets was on the beleaguered british pound , which gained slightly against the dollar . trading volume on the new york stock exchange dwindled to only 126.6 million shares yesterday as major brokerage firms continued to throw in the towel on program trading . kidder peabody became the most recent firm 0 to swear off stock-index arbitrage trading for its own account , and merrill lynch late yesterday took the major step of renouncing the trading strategy even for its clients . yet that did n't eliminate program trading from the market . the dow industrials shot up 23 points in the opening hour , at least in part because of buy programs generated by stock-index arbitrage , a form of program trading involving futures contracts . but interest waned as the day wore on and investors looked ahead to the release later this week of two important economic reports . the first is wednesday 's survey of purchasing managers , considered a good indicator of how the nation 's manufacturing sector fared in october . the other is friday 's measure of october employment , an indicator of the broader economy 's health . both are expected to show continued sluggishness , which would be good for bonds and bad for stocks . in major market activity : stock prices rose in light trading . but declining issues on the new york stock exchange outnumbered gainers 774 to 684 , and broader market indexes were virtually unchanged . bond prices crept higher . the treasury 's benchmark 30-year bond gained about an eighth of a point , or about $ 1.25 for each $ 1,000 face amount . the yield on the issue slipped to 7.92 % . the dollar gained . in late new york trading the dollar was quoted at 1.8340 marks and 141.90 yen , compared with 1.8300 marks and 141.65 yen friday . the british pound , pressured by last week 's resignations of key thatcher administration officials , nevertheless rose monday to $ 1.5820 from friday 's $ 1.5795 .