the justice department scrambled to play down the significance of its new guidelines concerning prosecutions under the federal racketeering law . the guidelines were distributed to u.s. attorneys last summer but were disclosed for the first time by press reports this week . they discourage prosecutors , under certain circumstances , from seeking court orders seizing the assets of racketeering defendants prior to trial . but david runkel , chief justice department spokesman , said 0 the guidelines `` are a codification and a clarification far more than a new direction . '' use of the racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations law against white-collar defendants , as opposed to alleged organized-crime figures , has come under attack from some defense lawyers and legal scholars . critics have complained that the law unfairly strips defendants of assets before a jury determines 0 they have committed a crime and that aggressive use of the forfeiture provisions can ruin corporate defendants or force them into unfavorable plea bargains . in the new guidelines , the justice department says that in attempting to freeze disputed assets before trial , `` the government will not seek to disrupt the normal , legitimate business activities of the defendant '' and `` will not seek ... to take from third parties assets legitimately transferred to them . '' the guidelines also state , `` 0 the government 's policy is not to seek the fullest forfeiture permissible under the law where that forfeiture would be disproportionate to the defendant 's crime . '' another provision clarifies certain limits on when prosecutors may use tax-fraud charges as a basis for bringing a racketeering case . mr. runkel declined to speculate on whether the guidelines would curb racketeering prosecutions against corporate defendants . `` the impact , if there is any , will be impossible 0 to judge ahead of time because the decision whether to use -lcb- racketeering charges -rcb- is made in individual cases '' by justice department officials in washington , he said . in a memorandum describing the guidelines , assistant attorney general edward dennis jr. said that government efforts to freeze defendants ' assets pending racketeering prosecutions `` have been the subject of considerable criticism in the press . '' but mr. runkel said 0 the government is n't `` backing off on these kinds of matters at all .