after years of struggling , the los angeles herald examiner will publish its last edition today , shut down by its parent , hearst corp. , following unsuccessful efforts to sell the venerable newspaper . the demise of the 238,000-circulation herald , once the nation 's largest afternoon newspaper with circulation exceeding 700,000 , turns the country 's second-largest city into a one-newspaper town , at least in some senses . the los angeles times , with a circulation of more than 1.1 million , dominates the region . but it faces stiff competition in orange county from the orange county register , which sells more than 300,000 copies a day , and in the san fernando valley from the los angeles daily news , which sells more than 170,000 . nearby cities such as pasadena and long beach also have large dailies . in july , closely held hearst , based in new york , put the paper on the block . speculation had it that the company was asking $ 100 million for an operation said to be losing about $ 20 million a year , but others said 0 hearst might have virtually given the paper away . an attempted buy-out led by john j. mccabe , chief operating officer , never materialized , and a stream of what one staff member dismissed as `` tire-kickers and lookee-loos '' had filed through since . the prospective buyers included investor marvin davis and the toronto sun . the death of the herald , a newsstand paper in a freeway town , was perhaps inevitable . los angeles is a sprawling , balkanized newspaper market , and advertisers seemed to feel 0 they could buy space in the mammoth times , then target a particular area with one of the regional dailies . the herald was left in limbo . further , the herald seemed torn editorially between keeping its old-time hearst readership -- blue-collar and sports-oriented -- and trying to provide a sprightly , upscale alternative to the sometimes staid times . hearst had flirted with a conversion to tabloid format for years but never executed the plan . the herald joins the baltimore news-american , which folded , and the boston herald-american , which was sold , as cornerstones of the old hearst newspaper empire abandoned by the company in the 1980s . many felt 0 hearst kept the paper alive as long as it did , if marginally , because of its place in family history . its fanciful offices were designed by architect julia morgan , who built the hearst castle at san simeon . william randolph hearst had kept an apartment in the spanish renaissance-style building . analysts said 0 the herald 's demise does n't necessarily represent the overall condition of the newspaper industry . `` the herald was a survivor from a bygone age , '' said j. kendrick noble , a media analyst with painewebber inc . `` actually , the long deterioration in daily newspapers shows signs of coming to an end , and the industry looks pretty healthy . '' founded as the examiner in 1903 by mr. hearst , the herald was crippled by a bitter , decade-long strike that began in 1967 and cut circulation in half . financially , it never recovered ; editorially , it had its moments . in 1979 , hearst hired editor james bellows , who brightened the editorial product considerably . he and his successor , mary anne dolan , restored respect for the editorial product , and though in recent years the paper had been limping along on limited resources , its accomplishments were notable . for example , the herald consistently beat its much-larger rival on disclosures about los angeles mayor tom bradley 's financial dealings . the herald 's sports coverage and arts criticism were also highly regarded . robert j. danzig , vice president and general manager of hearst newspapers , stood up in the paper 's newsroom yesterday and announced that no buyers had stepped forward and that the paper would fold , putting more than 730 full-time employees out of work . hearst said 0 it would provide employees with a placement service and pay them for 60 days . some long-tenured employees will receive additional benefits , the company said 0 . hours after the announcement , representatives of the orange county register were in a bar across the street recruiting . the reaction in the newsroom was emotional . `` i 've never seen so many people crying in one place at one time , '' said bill johnson , an assistant city editor . `` so long , l.a. '' was chosen as the paper 's final headline . `` i 'm doing the main story , and i 'm already two beers drunk , '' said reporter andy furillo , whom the times hired away several years ago but who returned to the herald out of preference . his wife also works for the paper , as did his father . outside , a young pressman filling a news box with an extra edition headlined `` herald examiner closes '' refused to take a reader 's quarter . `` forget it , '' he said as he handed her a paper . `` it does n't make any difference now .