the growing crowd of japanese investors buying up foreign companies are n't all strait-laced businessmen in dark suits . yasumichi morishita , whose art gallery last month became a major shareholder in christies international plc , the london auction house , is one man who does n't fit the mold . in japan , he 's known in racy weekly magazines as the `` king of shady money . '' if nothing else , the 57-year-old 's past has its share of dents . nearly 20 years ago , mr. morishita , founder and chairman of aichi corp. , a finance company , received a 10-month suspended sentence from a tokyo court for violating a money-lending law and an income tax law . he was convicted of charging interest rates much higher than what the law permitted , and attempting to evade income taxes by using a double accounting system . he 's had other brushes with the law . he was arrested , though not indicted , on at least three other occasions in the '60s and '70s : for assault and unlawful confinement , for fraud and forgery of private documents , and for extortion . christies says 0 it has had no contact with mr. morishita since the stock purchase , but that it 's happy to deal with him . `` we like to make our own judgments '' about mr. morishita , says 0 christopher davidge , christies ' group managing director . `` people have a different reputation country by country . '' mr. morishita is a leading figure among japan 's 38,000 `` machikin , '' which lend to small companies , and `` sarakin , '' which lend to individuals . many of these financiers lend freely , often without demanding collateral . but the interest rates 0 they charge are often near japan 's 54.75 % legal limit , says kenji utsunomiya , a lawyer specializing in loan troubles . aichi is a machikin , mr. utsunomiya says 0 , and `` one of the nasty ones . '' in describing that business in general , he says that when the client ca n't repay the loan , some machikin `` clutch on like hyenas '' and even take over the client 's company . last month , mr. morishita 's new gallery , aska international ltd. , purchased 6.4 % of christies for # 33 million -lrb- $ 53.3 million -rrb- . acquired from carisbrook holdings u.k. ltd. , a company owned by australian financier robert holmes a court , the stake was apparently the first of its kind for aska , an entity separate from aichi . and the acquisition , which made aska one of christies ' top five shareholders , left many people wondering who this man was and what his intentions were . `` we 're an investor , '' mr. morishita says , sitting back in his purple gallery filled with some 20 monets and renoirs . `` in the long run , the -lcb- stock -rcb- prices will go up . '' it 's not clear whether aska plans to buy more shares . but christies , mr. morishita insists 0 , is happy to see him become a long-term stockholder . mr. morishita considers himself a connoisseur of art . in 30 years of collecting impressionist and japanese paintings , he has acquired 600 items , he says 0 , enough 0 to persuade him to start a museum next year . he says 0 he spent $ 300 million on his art business this year . a week ago , his gallery racked up a $ 23 million tab at a sotheby 's auction in new york buying seven works , including a picasso . `` he makes snap judgments , '' says kiyotaka kori , the art gallery 's manager and mr. morishita 's secretary for more than seven years . mr. morishita 's main business certainly appears to be thriving , although he wo n't disclose numbers . according to teikoku data bank ltd. , which tracks company earnings , aichi 's revenue rose 15 % to 49.3 billion yen -lrb- $ 348.4 million -rrb- in the year ended february . revenue doubled from two years ago . that is , if the company reported results correctly . the asahi shimbun , a japanese daily , last month reported that aichi revised its tax calculations after being challenged for allegedly failing to report all of its income to tax authorities over a two-year period . the tokyo regional taxation office declines to comment , and mr. kori , the tycoon 's secretary , says 0 the problem simply resulted from a difference of opinion over what was considered income . the small , wiry mr. morishita comes across as an outspoken man of the world . stretching his arms in his silky white shirt and squeaking his black shoes , he lectures a visitor about the way 0 to sell american real estate and boasts about his friendship with margaret thatcher 's son . but when asked what exactly he does in business , he immediately takes offense . `` are you stupid ? '' he snaps . `` you should know what questions to ask to get people to answer . '' not many people know the details of mr. morishita 's business , but it 's a source of rumors about shady dealings . when a small company goes belly-up , for instance , the gossipy weekly magazines are often quick to link the demise with aichi . mr. morishita scoffs at those stories , as well as the ones connecting him to the japanese mob . he says 0 he has never even dined with gangsters . the seventh child of a store owner in aichi prefecture , mr. morishita started out in the textile business . from there , he set up his finance company and rapidly expanded from lending to investment in real estate to building golf courses . he spends most weekends flying his helicopter to one of his nine courses , he says 0 , two of which were designed by jack nicklaus . he also owns courses in the u.s. and france . the gruff financier recently started socializing in upper-class circles . although he says 0 he was n't keen on going , last year he attended a new york gala where his daughter made her debut . he also leads an opulent life style . even in denenchofu , one of tokyo 's richest neighborhoods , mr. morishita 's splashy brick manor -- one of some 10 houses 0 he owns -- outshines the neighbors ' . a lavish white portico with a stained-glass window towers over the brick wall surrounding his property . although mr. morishita says little about his business , he offers one rule to success : never gamble too far . `` i quit after one try , whether i win or lose , '' he says . `` i 'm done in two minutes . '' mr. morishita says 0 he intends to expand his business to many other areas at home and abroad . he 'll be there wherever there 's money 0 to be made , laughs 0 mr. kori , the secretary . `` who knows , '' he says , `` if he heard that soybeans make money today , he might be flying out to chicago tomorrow .