reuters holdings plc said 0 michael reupke resigned as general manager to pursue unspecified interests , a move 0 the news organization termed an `` amicable separation . '' mr. reupke , 52 years old and a 27-year reuters veteran , had been the information-services company 's general manager for only six months . his appointment to that post , which has senior administrative , staff and policy responsibilities , followed a several-year tenure as reuters 's editor in chief . no successor was named , and mr. reupke 's duties will be split among three other senior reuters executives , the company said 0 . in a telephone interview , mr. reupke said 0 his departure was for `` personal reasons , '' which he declined to specify . `` there is no business reason for my departure , '' nor any disagreement over policy , he added 0 . he also rejected reports that his departure stemmed from disappointment 0 the general manager 's post had n't also led to a board directorship at the london-based news organization . mr. reupke was one of three executives on reuters 's eight-person executive committee who did n't also serve on the company 's board of directors . `` if i were choosing the people of tomorrow , i would have chosen the people who are now on the board , '' he said . a reuters spokesman said 0 the departure reflects `` no change in strategy or profits . '' mark shepperd , an analyst at ubs phillips & drew in london , said , `` i suspect 0 -lrb- the departure -rrb- will be fairly irrelevant for the company . i would be very surprised if his departure signals any change in strategy or change in profit expectations . '' on london 's stock exchange , reuters shares rose five pence to 913 pence -lrb- $ 14.43 -rrb- . in the u.s. over-the-counter market , american depositary shares for reuters , each representing three shares in the london market , closed unchanged at $ 43.875 . the senior of the three executives who will assume mr. reupke 's duties is nigel judah , 58 , finance director and a reuters board director . peter holland , 45 , deputy general manager , becomes director of corporate affairs . and patrick mannix , 46 , international technical manager , becomes director of group quality programs .