pension funds , insurers and other behemoths of the investing world said 0 they began scooping up stocks during friday 's market rout . and they plan to buy more today . rightly or wrongly , many giant institutional investors appear to be fighting the latest war by applying the lesson 0 they learned in the october 1987 crash : buying at the bottom pays off . to be sure , big investors might put away their checkbooks in a hurry if stocks open sharply lower today . they could still panic and bail out of the market . but their 1987 performance indicates that they wo n't abandon stocks unless conditions get far worse . `` last time , we got rewarded for going out and buying stocks when the panic was the worst , '' said john w. rogers , president of chicago-based ariel capital management inc. , which manages $ 1.1 billion of stocks . mr. rogers spent half his cash on hand friday for `` our favorite stocks that have fallen apart . '' he expects to invest the rest if the market weakens further . denver-based portfolio manager james craig was n't daunted when friday 's rout shaved $ 40 million from the value of the $ 752 million janus fund 0 he oversees . `` i waited to make sure 0 all the program trades had kicked through , '' he said . then he jumped into the market : `` i spent $ 30 million in the last half-hour . '' other money managers also opened their wallets . `` i was buying at the close -lrb- friday -rrb- and i 'll be buying again because i know 0 we 're getting good value , '' said frederick a. moran , president of moran asset management inc. , greenwich , conn . `` there is no justification on the fundamental level for this crash . '' unlike mutual funds , which can be forced to sell stockholdings when investors rush to withdraw money , big investors such as pension funds and insurance companies can decide to ride out market storms without jettisoning stock . most often , they do just that , because stocks have proved to be the best-performing long-term investment , attracting about $ 1 trillion from pension funds alone . `` if you bought after the crash , you did very very well off the bottom , '' said stephen b. timbers , chief investment officer of chicago-based kemper financial services inc . the $ 56 billion california public employees retirement system , for one , added $ 1 billion to its stock portfolio two years ago . `` the last crash taught institutional investors that they have to be long-term holders , and that they ca n't react to short-term events , good or bad , '' said stephen l. nesbitt , senior vice president for the pension consultants wilshire associates in santa monica , calif . `` those that pulled out -lrb- of stocks -rrb- regretted it , '' he said , `` so i doubt 0 you 'll see any significant changes '' in institutional portfolios as a result of friday 's decline . stocks , as measured by the standard & poor 's 500-stock index , have been stellar performers this year , rising 27.97 % before friday 's plunge , excluding dividends . even friday 's slump leaves investors ahead more than 20 % , well above the annual average for stocks over several decades . `` you could go down 400 points and still have a good year in the market , '' said james d. awad , president of new york-based bmi capital corp . mr. awad , however , worries that the market `` could go down 800 or 900 points in the next few days . it can happen before you can turn around . '' he said 0 he discerns many parallels with 1987 , including the emphasis on takeover stocks and the re-emergence of computerized program trading . `` the only thing 0 you do n't have , '' he said , `` is the ` portfolio insurance ' phenomenon overlaid on the rest . '' most institutional investors have abandoned the portfolio insurance hedging technique , which is widely thought to have worsened the 1987 crash . not really insurance , this tactic was designed to soften the blow of declining stock prices and generate an offsetting profit by selling waves of s&p futures contracts . in its severest test , the $ 60 billion of portfolio insurance in effect in the 1987 crash did n't work , as stock buyers disappeared and stock and futures prices became disconnected . even without portfolio insurance , market conditions were grim friday , money managers said 0 . neil weisman , whose new york-based chilmark capital partners had converted 85 % of its $ 220 million investment pool to cash in recent months , said 0 he was besieged by wall street firms friday asking him to take stock off their hands . `` we got calls from big block houses asking us if we want to make bids on anything , '' said mr. weisman , who , happy with his returns on investments chalked up earlier , declined the offers . mr. weisman predicts 0 stocks will appear to stabilize in the next few days before declining again , trapping more investors . `` i think 0 it will be a rigor mortis rally , '' he said . meanwhile , friday brought a reprieve for money managers whose investment styles had put them at odds with the market rally . especially gleeful were the short sellers , who have been pounded by this year 's market climb . the shorts sell borrowed shares , hoping to profit by replacing them later at a lower price . the nation 's largest short-selling operation is feshbach brothers , palo alto , calif. , which said last may that its short positions had shown losses of 10 % for the year up to that point . all that now has changed . `` we 're ahead for the year because of friday , '' said the firm 's kurt feshbach . `` we 're not making a killing , but we had a good day .