eastern airlines ' creditors committee , unhappy with the carrier 's plans for emerging from bankruptcy-law proceedings , asked its own experts to devise alternate approaches to a reorganization . representatives of the accounting firm of ernst & young and the securities firm of goldman , sachs & co. , hired by creditors to consult on eastern 's financial plans , told the committee in a private meeting yesterday that eastern 's latest plan to emerge from bankruptcy-law protection is far riskier than an earlier one which won the creditors ' approval . according to one person present at the meeting , eastern 's new plan is financially `` overly optimistic . '' asked about the consultants ' reports , an eastern spokeswoman said 0 `` we totally disagree . '' she said 0 they have `` oversimplified and made some erroneous assumptions that make their analysis completely off-base . '' at a later news conference here , frank lorenzo , chairman of eastern 's parent texas air corp. , said 0 eastern was exceeding its goals for getting back into operation and predicted 0 it would emerge from chapter 11 protection from creditors early next year , operating with more service than it originally had scheduled . he insisted , as he has before , that creditors would be paid in full under the plan . mr. lorenzo made no mention of creditors ' negative response to his plan . `` we 're in the process of discussing an amended plan with the creditors and anticipate filing that amended plan shortly , '' mr. lorenzo told reporters . `` we 're meeting and surpassing our goals , '' he added . in july , eastern and its creditors agreed on a reorganization plan that called for eastern to sell $ 1.8 billion in assets and to emerge from bankruptcy-law protection at two-thirds its former size . but after selling off pieces such as its east coast shuttle , its philadelphia hub and various planes , eastern hit a stumbling block . it could n't sell its south american routes , one of the major assets marked for disposal . those routes , valued by the creditors ' professionals at about $ 400 million , were to be sold to amr corp. 's american airlines . a last-minute snag in negotiations with amr , over an unrelated lawsuit between american and another texas air unit , caused the deal to collapse . eastern ultimately decided 0 it would have to keep and operate the routes itself , which would leave it with less cash for its reorganization . it also would leave eastern a bigger carrier than the scaled-down one proposed under the initial plan . those changes in its condition meant 0 the reorganization plan previously presented to creditors would have to be revamped . since then , eastern has been negotiating with creditors over revisions , but the creditors committee has been having problems with the revisions . the committee has two groups of experts 0 it calls on to analyze eastern 's plans . both said 0 the new plan would n't work . ernst & young said 0 eastern 's plans will miss its projections of earnings before interest , tax and depreciation by $ 100 million , and that eastern 's plan presented no comfort level , according to a source present at yesterday 's session . experts from goldman sachs estimated 0 eastern would miss the same mark by $ 120 million to $ 135 million , the source said . the experts said 0 they expected 0 eastern would have to issue new debt to cover its costs , and that it would generate far less cash than 0 anticipated . other costs also would increase , including maintenance , because eastern has an older fleet . at the news conference , mr. lorenzo and eastern president phil bakes presented a far rosier assessment . flanked by flight attendants , pilots and gate agents dressed in spiffy new blue uniforms , they said 0 eastern has exceeded its operational goals and is filling its seats . starting next month , eastern will begin flying 775 flights daily instead of the previously announced 700 , they said 0 . mr. bakes declined to give out eastern 's daily losses , but said 0 he did n't expect 0 eastern would have to dip into the cash from asset sales currently held in escrow . these accounts hold several hundred million dollars , primarily from asset sales . the plan 0 eastern hopes to pursue , he said 0 , calls for eastern to have $ 390 million in cash by year 's end . both he and mr. lorenzo predicted 0 that plan might be confirmed in january . as to negotiations with creditors , mr. lorenzo said in remarks after the conference `` 0 we 'll have to see how they -lcb- talks -rcb- come along . '' however , he added , `` it 's not a requirement that the plan be accepted by creditors . it must be accepted by the court . '' under bankruptcy law , eastern has exclusive rights for a certain period to develop its own reorganization plan . that deadline has been extended once and could be extended again . if eastern can get creditor support , court confirmation of its plan could be relatively swift . but creditors are free to press for court approval of their own plan , or the court could ignore both sides and draw its own . in any event , some people familiar with the case question whether the court will act by january as forecast by mr. lorenzo and mr. bakes . eastern sought bankruptcy-law protection a few days after a crippling strike began march 4 . mr. lorenzo told reporters 0 the reorganization 0 eastern is pursuing would create a carrier 85 % to 90 % of the size of the pre-bankruptcy eastern . he projected 0 it would be operating about 1,000 flights a day by late spring , only slightly fewer than the carrier 's old volume of 1,050 a day .