winnebago industries inc. , battered by a deepening slowdown in recreational vehicle industry sales , reported a widened fourth-quarter loss and slashed its dividend in half . the forest city , iowa , maker of motor homes said 0 it had a loss of $ 11.3 million , or 46 cents a share , in the quarter ended aug. 26 . a year earlier , the company had a deficit of $ 1.5 million , or six cents a share . the cut in the dividend to 10 cents a share semiannually , from 20 cents , `` would indicate to me 0 they do n't see the problems being fixed real quick , '' said 0 frank rolfes , an analyst at dain bosworth inc. in minneapolis . indeed , winnebago said 0 it started `` several promotional programs '' to spur retail sales in the fall and winter . the year was already shaping up as a difficult one for the recreational vehicle industry , which makes products such as motor homes , travel trailers , folding campers and van conversions . with the exception of van conversions , the industry has seen a decline from 1988 's robust sales . but the rate of the decline snowballed in august , with unit sales to dealers for the month down 10.5 % from a year earlier , according to the recreation vehicle industry association . at winnebago , sales for the quarter fell 6 % to $ 89.5 million from $ 95.4 million a year earlier . the company attributed the decline to consumers ' concern over interest rates and gas prices -- two key expenses for rv buyers . `` it 's a large-ticket discretionary purchase , '' said robert curran , who follows the industry for merrill lynch & co . `` so when there 's talk and concern about the economy , it 's not unreasonable for a portion of the buying public to defer purchases . '' mr. curran expects industry rv sales for all of 1989 to fall about 5 % from 1988 , when sales of 427,300 units were the highest since 1978 . and he said 0 the weakness could continue in the first half of next year . but he said 0 the industry has `` a good decade ahead , '' particularly if aging baby boomers fulfill the industry 's dreams by buying rvs . winnebago was hit especially hard in the latest downturn because unit sales in its bread-and-butter motor home business tumbled 25 % industrywide in august , and 10.4 % in the first eight months of the year . the company said 0 it also suffered in the quarter from incentive programs , losses from discontinuing a motor home line and costs of developing a new commercial vehicle , among other things . the news sent winnebago stock falling 62.5 cents , to $ 5.25 , in new york stock exchange composite trading - a 52-week low . the dividend cut will prove most costly for john k. hanson , winnebago 's founder and chairman . based on his control of about 45 % of winnebago 's 24.7 million shares , his annual dividend income would be cut to about $ 2.2 million from $ 4.4 million . for the year , winnebago had a loss of $ 4.7 million , or 19 cents a share , following profit of $ 2.7 million , or 11 cents a share , a year earlier . sales rose 2 % to $ 437.5 million from $ 430.3 million .