when justice william brennan marks the start of his 34th year on the supreme court today , the occasion will differ sharply from previous anniversaries of his tenure . for the first time , the 83-year-old justice finds his influence almost exclusively in dissent , rather than as a force in the high court 's majority . this role reversal holds true , as well , for his three liberal and moderate allies , justices thurgood marshall , harry blackmun and john stevens . but are these four players , three of them in their 80s , ready to assume a different role after 88 years , collectively , of service on the high court ? every indication is that the four are prepared to accept this new role , and the frustrations that go with it , but in different ways . justices brennan and stevens appear philosophical about it ; justices marshall and blackmun appear fighting mad . the four justices are no newcomers to dissent , often joining forces in the past decade to criticize the court 's conservative drift . but always , in years past , they have bucked the trend and have been able to pick up a fifth vote to eke out a number of major victories in civil rights and liberties cases . now , however , as the court 's new five-member conservative majority continues to solidify , victories for the liberals are rare . the change is most dramatic for justice brennan , the last survivor of the mid-1960s liberal majority under chief justice earl warren . in the seven supreme court terms from the fall of 1962 through the spring of 1967 , the height of the warren court 's power , justice brennan cast only 25 dissenting votes in 555 cases decided by the court . last term alone he cast 52 dissenting votes in 133 decisions , with the contentious flag-burning ruling as his only big victory . but justice brennan foresaw his new role , strongly defending the importance of dissents in a 1985 speech . `` each time 0 the court revisits an issue , the justices will be forced by a dissent to reconsider the fundamental questions and to rethink the result , '' he said . moreover , in recent months he has said that when he was on the winning side in the 1960s , he knew that the tables might turn in the future . he has said that he now knows how justice john harlan felt , a reference to the late conservative justice who was the most frequent dissenter from the warren court 's opinions . associates of 81-year-old justice marshall say 0 he was `` depressed '' about the court 's direction last spring , but is feisty about his role and determined to speak out against the court 's cutbacks in civil rights . `` we could sweep it under the rug and hide it , but i 'm not going to do it , '' he said in a speech last month . he , like justice brennan , considers dissents highly important for the future , a point that has n't escaped legal scholars . harvard law school professor laurence tribe says 0 there is a `` generation-skipping '' flavor to current dissents . the dissenters in the warren court , he says 0 , appeared to be writing for the short-term , suggesting that the court 's direction might change soon . `` brennan and marshall are speaking in their dissents to a more distant future , '' he says . justice blackmun , who will turn 81 next month , also seems feisty about his new role . associates say 0 he takes some defeats more personally than his colleagues , especially attempts to curtail the right to abortion first recognized in his 1973 opinion , roe vs. wade . friends and associates who saw justice blackmun during the summer said 0 he was no more discouraged about the court than in recent years . and his outlook improved after successful cataract surgery in august . but his level of frustration showed in a recent , impassioned speech to a group of hundreds of lawyers in chicago . he concluded his remarks by quoting , emotionally and at some length , according to those present , the late martin luther king 's famous `` i have a dream '' speech from the 1963 march on washington . justice stevens , 69 , is probably the most philosophical of the dissenters about his role , in part because he may be the least liberal of the four , but also because he enjoys the intellectual challenge of arguing with the majority more than the others . if the role 0 these four dissenters are assuming is a familiar one in modern supreme court history , it also differs in an important way from recent history , court watchers say 0 . `` the dissenters of the warren court were often defending a legal legacy that they inherited , '' says 0 prof. a.e. dick howard of the university of virginia law school , `` but the dissenters today are defending a legacy that they created .