the bronx has a wonderful botanical garden , a great zoo , its own charming little italy -lrb- on arthur avenue -rrb- and , of course , the yankees . however , most people , having been subjected to news footage of the devastated south bronx , look at the borough the way 0 tom wolfe 's sherman mccoy did in `` bonfire of the vanities '' -- as a wrong turn into hell . but laura cunningham 's bronx , her childhood bronx of the '50s , is something else altogether . in a lovely , novelistic memoir , `` sleeping arrangements '' -lrb- knopf , 195 pages , $ 18.95 -rrb- , she remembers an exotic playground , peopled mainly by jewish eccentrics and the occasional catholic -lrb- real oddballs like her sexpot friend , the hell-kitten diana , age five -rrb- . ms. cunningham , a novelist and playwright , has a vivid and dramatically outsized sense of recall . she transforms her `` bronx of the emotions , a place where the flats of mediocrity are only relieved by steep descents into hysteria '' into the `` babylonian bronx , '' a world simmering with sex and death and intrigue . in the babylonian bronx , jewish working-class people lived in drab , soviet-style buildings `` glamorized '' with names like anamor towers -lrb- after owners anna and morris snezak -rrb- , whose lobbies and hallways were decorated with murals of ancient syrians and greeks , friezes of pompeii . for ms. cunningham the architectural discombobulation matched the discrepancy 0 she felt living in the anamor towers as a little girl : `` ... outwardly ordinary , inwardly ornate , owing all inspiration to heathen cultures . '' sharp-witted and funny but never mean , she 's a memorialist a bit like truman capote , if he 'd been jewish and female and less bitchy . little lily , as ms. cunningham calls herself in the book , really was n't ordinary . she was raised , for the first eight years , by her mother , rosie , whom she remembers as a loving liar , who realigned history to explain why lily 's father did n't live with them . rosie reinvented this man , who may or may not have known about his child , as a war hero for lily 's benefit . rosie died young and lily has remembered her as a romantic figure , who did n't interfere much with her child 's education on the streets . the games 0 bronx children played -lrb- holding kids down and stripping them , for example -rrb- seem tame by today 's crack standards , but ms. cunningham makes it all sound like a great adventure . `` without official knowledge of sex or death , we flirted with both , '' she writes . she analyzed families by their sleeping arrangements . her friend susan , whose parents kept reminding her 0 she was unwanted , slept on a narrow bed wedged into her parents ' bedroom , as though she were a temporary visitor . her friend diana 's father was a professional thief ; they did n't seem to have any bedrooms at all . maybe lily became so obsessed with where people slept and how because her own arrangements kept shifting . when rosie died , her uncles moved in -- and let her make the sleeping and other household arrangements . they painted the apartment orange , pink and white , according to her instructions . with loving detail she recalls her uncle gabe , an orthodox jew and song lyricist -lrb- who rhymed river with liver in a love song -rrb- ; and uncle len , a mysterious part-time investigator who looked like lincoln and carried a change of clothing in a manila envelope , like an `` undercover president on a good-will mission . '' they came by their strangeness honestly . lily 's grandmother , no cookie baker , excised the heads of disliked relatives from the family album , and lugged around her perennial work-in-progress , `` philosophy for women . '' the book loses some momentum toward the end , when lily becomes more preoccupied with dating boys and less with her delightfully weird family . for the most part , though , there 's much pleasure in her saucy , poignant probe into the mysteries of the babylonian bronx . the bronx also figures in bruce jay friedman 's latest novel , which flashes back to the new york of the '50s . but both the past and present worlds of `` the current climate '' -lrb- atlantic monthly press , 200 pages , $ 18.95 -rrb- feel cramped and static . for his sixth novel , mr. friedman tried to resuscitate the protagonist of his 1972 work , `` about harry towns . '' harry is now a 57-year-old writer , whose continuing flirtation with drugs and marginal types in hollywood and new york seems quaintly out-of-synch . harry fondly remembers the `` old '' days of the early '70s , when people like his friend travis would take a psychiatrist on a date to analyze what travis was doing wrong . `` an l.a. solution , '' explains mr. friedman . line by line mr. friedman 's weary cynicism can be amusing , especially when he 's riffing on the hollywood social scheme -- the way 0 people size each other up , immediately canceling the desperate ones who merely almost made it . harry has avoided all that by living in a long island suburb with his wife , who 's so addicted to soap operas and mystery novels 0 she barely seems to notice when her husband disappears for drug-seeking forays into manhattan . but it does n't take too many lines to figure harry out . he 's a bore .