it all seemed innocent enough : last april , one steven b. iken visited justin products inc. here , identified himself as a potential customer and got the word on the little company 's new cassette players for children . `` it is almost identical to the sony product , '' mr. iken remarked , after seeing prototypes and pictures . replied a justin salesman : `` exactly . '' the justin merchandise carried wholesale prices some 40 % below those of sony corp. of japan 's `` my first sony '' line . the visitor waxed enthusiastic and promised to return . but instead of a new customer -- part of a hoped-for bonanza from underselling sony -- justin got a costly legal morass . mr. iken , it turned out , was a private detective using a hidden tape recorder to gather information for sony . his recording later turned up as a court exhibit . seeking to keep justin 's `` my own '' product line off the u.s. market , sony last may filed a suit in manhattan federal court accusing the upstart of trademark infringement , unfair competition and other violations of business law . since then , life has changed a lot for 61-year-old leonard kaye , justin 's owner . `` i have n't been able to get a decent night 's sleep since this has been going on , '' he says . `` it 's the most distracting thing in my life -- i ca n't even attend to my business . '' his company -lrb- annual sales : about $ 25 million -rrb- may suffer a costly blow -- losing an estimated 10 % of total sales -- if sony -lrb- annual sales : about $ 16 billion -rrb- prevails . justin 's plight shows what can happen when a tiny company suddenly faces the full legal might of a wrathful multinational . with considerable irony , the case also shows how completely japan has turned the tables on u.s. business . americans used to complain bitterly about being undersold by look-alike products from japan . now sony , whose innovative , premium-priced products are among the most admired in consumer electronics , is bitterly complaining about a little u.s. firm with a cheap look-alike produced in china . `` the gist of this is that justin knocked off the sony line and sony wants to stop it , '' says lewis h. eslinger , sony 's attorney , who previously guarded rubik 's cube . -lrb- sony itself declines to comment . -rrb- if sony wins , mr. eslinger says , its little rival will have to try to sell the products overseas . at worst , he adds , `` they 'd have to grind them all up and throw them away . '' mr. kaye denies the suit 's charges and says 0 his only mistake was taking on sony in the marketplace . `` i made a similar line and i produced it cheaper , '' he says . today , u.s. judge john e. sprizzo is expected to rule on sony 's renewed request for a pre-trial order blocking sale of the disputed products , on which deliveries began in july . the judge turned down an earlier sony request for such an order -- a decision upheld on appeal -- but sony returned with additional evidence and arguments . though hoping to settle the case , justin vows to fight on , if necessary . but the battle is more than justin bargained for . `` i had no idea 0 i was getting in so deep , '' says mr. kaye , who founded justin in 1982 . mr. kaye had sold capetronic inc. , a taiwan electronics maker , and retired , only to find 0 he was bored . with justin , he began selling toys and electronics made mostly in hong kong , beginning with mickey mouse radios . the company has grown -- to about 40 employees , from four initially , mr. kaye says . justin has been profitable since 1986 , adds 0 the official , who shares his office with numerous teddy bears , all samples from his line of plush toys . like many others , mr. kaye took notice in 1987 when sony , in a classic example of market segmentation , changed the plastic skin and buttons on the famous walkman line of portable audio equipment and created the my first sony line for children . the brightly colored new products looked more like toys than the adult models . -lrb- in court papers , sony says 0 it has spent more than $ 3 million to promote the line , with resulting sales of over a million units . -rrb- sony found a new market niche , but mr. kaye figured that its prices left plenty of room for a lower-priced competitor . his products are n't exact copies of sony 's but strongly resemble them in size , shape and , especially , color . sony uses mostly red and blue , with traces of yellow -- and so does justin , on the theory that kids prefer these colors . -lrb- `` to be successful , a product can be any color whatsoever , as long as it is fire-engine red , '' says charles e. baxley , justin 's attorney . -rrb- by last winter , justin was showing prototypes at toy fairs in hong kong and new york -- and sony noticed . indeed , concerned that sony sales personnel were threatening legal action or other retaliation -- such as withholding desirable sony products -- against justin 's customers , mr. baxley fired off a letter to sony in april . he himself threatened to take the matter to the federal trade commission or u.s. justice department . but justin has n't pursued those charges -lrb- which were without merit , according to mr. eslinger , the sony attorney -rrb- . recalls mr. baxley : `` our purpose was to influence them to leave us alone . we never intended taking on sony -- we do n't have the resources . '' sony answered the empty threat with its real suit . off and on since then , the companies have skirmished in court . and justin , in a news release , says , `` once competitive , sony now resorts to strong-arm tactics in american courtrooms to carve out and protect niche markets . '' sony 's lawyer insists that the company 's tactics -- including the use of a private detective posing as a buyer -- are routine in such matters . he also insists that sony , no less than others , has a legal right to protect its `` trade dress , '' in this case , mostly the colors that it claims 0 make my first sony products distinctive . -lrb- justin claims 0 it began using the same colors on electronic goods for children long before sony entered the children 's market . -rrb- whatever its merits , sony 's aggressive defense is debilitating for justin . it 's also costly . mr. kaye says 0 he has paid more than $ 70,000 in legal fees so far . of sony , mr. kaye says : `` they know 0 there 's no way 0 for them to lose . they just keep digging me in deeper until i reach the point where i give up and go away . '' for now , though , he vows to hang in .