despite one of the most devastating droughts on record , net cash income in the farm belt rose to a new high of $ 59.9 billion last year . the previous record was $ 57.7 billion in 1987 , according to the agriculture department . net cash income -- the amount left in farmers ' pockets after deducting expenses from gross cash income -- increased in 33 states in 1988 , as the drought cut into crop yields and drove up commodity prices , the department 's economic research service reported 0 yesterday . most of those states set farm income records . the worst crop damage occurred in the midwestern corn belt and the northern great plains . what saved many farmers from a bad year was the opportunity to reclaim large quantities of grain and other crops that they had `` mortgaged '' to the government under price-support loan programs . with prices soaring , they were able to sell the reclaimed commodities at `` considerable profit , '' the agency 's 240-page report said 0 . in less parched areas , meanwhile , farmers who had little or no loss of production profited greatly from the higher prices . to the surprise of some analysts , net cash income rose in some of the hardest-hit states , including indiana , illinois , nebraska and the dakotas . analysts attributed the increases partly to the $ 4 billion disaster-assistance package enacted by congress . last year 's record net cash income confirms the farm sector 's rebound from the agricultural depression of the early 1980s . it also helps explain the reluctance of the major farm lobbies and many lawmakers to make any significant changes in the 1985 farm program next year . commodity prices have been rising in recent years , with the farm price index hitting record peaks earlier this year , as the government curtailed production with land-idling programs to reduce price-depressing surpluses . at the same time , export demand for u.s. wheat , corn and other commodities strengthened , said keith collins , a department analyst . farmers also benefited from strong livestock prices , as the nation 's cattle inventory dropped close to a 30-year low . `` all of these forces came together in 1988 to benefit agriculture , '' mr. collins said . california led the nation with $ 6.5 billion in net cash income last year , followed by texas , $ 3.9 billion ; iowa , $ 3.4 billion ; florida , $ 3.1 billion ; and minnesota , $ 2.7 billion . iowa and minnesota were among the few major farm states 0 to log a decline in net cash income . despite federal disaster relief , the drought of 1988 was a severe financial setback for an estimated 10,000 to 15,000 farmers , according to the department . many lost their farms . department economists do n't expect 1989 to be as good a year as 1988 was . indeed , net cash income is likely to fall this year as farm expenses rise and government payments to farmers decline . at the same time , an increase of land under cultivation after the drought has boosted production of corn , soybeans and other commodities , causing a fall in prices that has been only partly cushioned by heavy grain buying by the soviets . last year , government payments to farmers slipped to less than $ 14.5 billion from a record $ 16.7 billion in 1987 . payments are expected to range between $ 9 billion and $ 12 billion this year .