junk-bond markdowns , an ongoing securities and exchange commission investigation , a drexel burnham lambert connection , a fizzled buy-out rumor . all this has cast a pall over columbia savings & loan association and its high-rolling 43-year-old chairman , thomas spiegel , who built the $ 12.7 billion beverly hills , calif. , thrift with high-yield junk bonds . bears have targeted columbia 's stock because of the thrift 's exposure to the shaky junk market . and some investors fault mr. spiegel 's life style ; he earns millions of dollars a year and flies around in columbia 's jet planes . columbia stock recently hit 4 1\/8 , after reaching 11 3\/4 earlier this year on rumors that mr. spiegel would take the thrift private . moreover , junk professionals think columbia 's huge third-quarter markdown of its junk portfolio to $ 4.4 billion was n't enough , meaning 0 another markdown could be coming . but in recent days , columbia has edged up , closing at 5 1\/4 , up 3\/8 , yesterday on revived speculation that the thrift might restructure . mr. spiegel 's fans say 0 columbia 's southern california branches are highly salable , and the thrift has $ 458 million of shareholders equity underlying its assets . that 's almost $ 10 of equity for each columbia share , including convertible preferred shares , though more junk markdowns would reduce the cushion . columbia has only about 10 million common shares in public hands . the spiegel family has 25 % of the common and 75 % of the votes . other big common holders are carl lindner 's american financial , investor irwin jacobs and pacific financial research , though the latter cut its stake this summer . while many problems would attend a restructuring of columbia , investors say 0 mr. spiegel is mulling such a plan 0 to mitigate columbia 's junk problems . indeed , columbia executives recently told reporters 0 they were interested in creating a separate unit 0 to hold columbia 's junk bonds and perhaps do merchant banking . columbia wo n't comment on all the speculation . but like other thrifts , it 's expected to seek regulators ' consent to create a distinct junk-bond entity . plans to do this are due to be filed in a week or so . new rules force thrifts to write down their junk to market value , then sell the bonds over five years . that 's why columbia just wrote off $ 130 million of its junk and reserved $ 227 million for future junk losses . but if columbia could keep its junk bonds separate from the thrift till they mature -- at full value , unless the issuer goes bust or restructures -- the junk portfolio might do all right . columbia , a longtime drexel client , wo n't provide current data on its junk . but its 17 big junk holdings at year end showed only a few bonds that have been really battered . these were allied stores , western union telegraph , gillett holdings , sci television and texas air , though many other bonds in columbia 's portfolio also have lost value . possibly offsetting that , columbia recently estimated 0 it has unrealized gains on publicly traded equity investments of more than $ 70 million . it also hopes for ultimate gains of as much as $ 300 million on equity investments in buy-outs and restructurings . one trial balloon 0 mr. spiegel is said to have floated to investors : columbia might be broken up , as mellon bank was split into a good bank and a bad bank . but columbia 's good bank would be a regulated thrift , while the bad bank would be a private investment company , holding some of columbia 's junk bonds , real estate and equity investments . some think 0 columbia 's thrift , which now is seeking a new chief operating officer , might be capitalized at , say $ 300 million , and shopped to a commercial bank that wants a california presence . the thrift surely could be sold for more than the value of its equity , financial industry executives say 0 . meanwhile , the bad bank with the junk bonds -- and some capital -- might be spun off to columbia shareholders , including mr. spiegel , who might then have a new career , investors say 0 . it is n't clear how much a restructuring would help columbia stockholders . but `` the concept is workable . you sell the good bank as an ongoing operation and use some of the proceeds to capitalize the bad bank , '' says thrift specialist lewis ranieri of ranieri associates in new york . mr. spiegel 's next career move is a subject of speculation on wall street . few people think 0 mr. spiegel wants to run a bread-and-butter thrift , which current rules would force columbia to become . `` they are n't really a thrift , '' says jonathan gray , a sanford c. bernstein analyst . of course , regulators would have to approve columbia 's reorganization . and some investment bankers say 0 a restructuring is n't feasible while the sec still is scrutinizing mr. spiegel 's past junk-bond trades . pauline yoshihashi in los angeles contributed to this article . columbia savings & loan -lrb- nyse ; symbol : csv -rrb- business : savings and loan year ended dec. 31 , 1988 : net income : $ 65 million ; or $ 1.49 a share third quarter , sept. 30 , 1989 : net loss : $ 11.57 a share vs. net income : 37 cents a share average daily trading volume : 83,206 shares common shares outstanding : 19.6 million note : all per-share figures are fully diluted .