western digital corp. reported a net loss of $ 2.7 million , or nine cents a share , for its first quarter ended sept. 30 , citing factors as varied as hurricane damage , an advance in graphics technology and the strengthening dollar . in the year-ago period , the company earned $ 12.9 million , or 45 cents a share , on sales of $ 247 million . sales for the just-ended period fell to about $ 225 million , the maker of computer parts said 0 . nonetheless , chairman roger w. johnson said 0 he expects the company to be profitable in the current quarter . `` we are positioned to come through , '' he said , noting that the company 's backlog was up from the previous quarter . in its second quarter last year , western digital earned $ 12.7 million , or 44 cents a share , on sales of $ 258.4 million . mr. johnson said 0 western digital 's plant in puerto rico was affected by hurricane hugo , losing three days ' production because of the storm , which wrecked much of the caribbean island 's infrastructure . although the plant itself was n't damaged , mr. johnson said 0 millions of dollars in first-quarter revenue were lost . the revenue will be regained in the current period , he added 0 . there are no plans to initiate a common stock dividend , mr. johnson said 0 , explaining that the board continues to believe 0 shareholders are best served by reinvesting excess cash . mr. johnson said 0 the first-quarter loss also heavily reflected a rapid change in graphics technology that left reseller channels with too many of the old computer graphics boards and too few new monitors compatible with the new graphics boards . western digital does n't make the monitors . an accelerating move by personal computer manufacturers ' 0 to include advanced graphics capabilities as standard equipment further dampened reseller purchases of western digital 's equipment . `` the other areas of the business -- storage and microcomputers -- were very good , '' mr. johnson said . he said 0 western digital has reacted swiftly to the movement to video graphics array , vga , graphics technology from the old enhanced graphics adapter , ega , which has a lower resolution standard , technology and now is one of the leading producers of these newer units . other makers of video controller equipment also were caught in the ega-vga shift , he said 0 , `` but we were able to respond much more quickly . '' still , mr. johnson said 0 , `` our stock is grossly undervalued . '' he said 0 the company has cut operating expenses by about 10 % over the last few quarters , while maintaining research and development at about 8 % to 9 % of sales . as part of its reorganization this week , western digital has divided its business into two segments -- storage products , including controllers and disk drives ; and microcomputer products , which include graphics , communications and peripheral control chips . graphics , communications and peripheral control chips were combined because , increasingly , multiple functions are being governed by a single chip . storage , which includes computer controllers and 3.5-inch disk drives , represents nearly two-thirds of the company 's business . disk drives , which allow a computer to access its memory , generated 38 % more revenue in the most recent period compared with the fiscal first quarter a year earlier . computer parts are getting ever smaller , mr. johnson said 0 , a shrinking that has propelled laptops into position as the fastest-growing segment of the computer business . as smaller and more powerful computers continue to be the focus of the industry , he said 0 , western digital is strengthening development of laptop parts . next year western digital plans to consolidate its operations from 11 buildings in irvine into two buildings in the same city a new headquarters and , a block away , a modern $ 100 million silicon wafer fabrication plant . the plan will help the company in its existing joint manufacturing agreement with at&t . about half of western digital 's business is overseas , and mr. johnson expects that proportion to continue . plans to dissolve many of the trade barriers within europe in 1992 creates significant opportunities for the company , he said 0 , particularly since western digital already manufactures there . capitalizing on that presence , western digital is launching a major effort to develop the embryonic reseller market in europe .