japan is going on a capital-spending binge that could make its trade surpluses even harder 0 to shrink . its capital spending is growing at double-digit rates for the second year in a row , and its superefficient producers of everything from cars to computer chips are rushing to expand capacity , modernize factories and develop new products . `` the boom 's so huge , '' says mitsuru saito , an economist at sanwa research institute , `` 0 it makes you think of the golden '60s , '' when japan developed rapidly . the more factories and robots japanese manufacturers add , the more they will be able to export , and the less their domestic customers will need to import . at canon inc. , for example , sales are up nearly 20 % this year ; so , the maker of cameras and computer printers is doing what any japanese company would do under the circumstances : it is increasing capital spending -- by 60 % . it is building , among other things , a new laser-beam-printer factory in western japan that can produce up to 150,000 printers next year . some 70 % of them are to be exported to the u.s. . even companies in smokestack industries wrestling with world-wide overcapacity are joining the boom . japan 's steelmakers are raising capital spending 22 % this year to $ 4.8 billion . hitachi zosen corp. , a shipbuilder buried in debt just a few years ago , will build a machinery plant , its first expansion in 14 years . so big is the capital-spending boom that japanese companies ' outlays in japan topped american companies ' domestic outlays by $ 521.4 billion to $ 494.8 billion in the 12 months ended march 31 even though japan 's total output of goods and services is less than two-thirds america 's . from a financial standpoint , the boom could n't come at a better time . many japanese companies expect record profits this fiscal year , and japanese interest rates , though up a bit recently , are still low . and in a business system where shareholders have few rights and expect only modest dividends , companies can plow their profits back into plant and equipment . but some economists and government officials here are n't applauding . they fear that the boom may be too big for japan 's or anyone else 's good . `` it 's an explosive cocktail '' thrown at the world , says 0 kenneth courtis , senior economist at the tokyo unit of deutsche bank group . the ministry of international trade and industry is so concerned that it recently took the unusual step of urging japanese auto companies to exercise caution in capital spending . miti officials hope to avoid yet-another source of trade friction with the u.s. even though export restraints currently limit japanese car exports to the u.s. . not everyone is worried , however . some economists -- and many japanese companies -- are puzzled by the warnings . the investment boom is mainly sparked , they say 0 , by strong domestic demand and is n't likely to increase exports sharply . moreover , much investment is n't aimed at increasing capacity . according to a survey of some 2,400 large companies by the japan development bank , expanded capacity is the goal of just 51.8 % of the outlays ; for manufacturers alone , the figure is 32 % . the manufacturers said 0 14.2 % of their spending is designed to improve products or add new ones , 17.5 % is to cut costs , 12.5 % is for research and development , and the rest is for maintenance and other purposes . but the worriers remain unconvinced . with japan running enormous trade surpluses against much of the world , they think that japan should meet the increased domestic demand by importing more . and eventually , they contend 0 , domestic demand will weaken , forcing companies to emphasize exports again . `` if there 's a further drive to export , '' says nobuyuki arai , an economist at the japan development bank , `` that 'll be a problem . '' even in the short run , the investment boom could exacerbate a disturbing trend : japanese exports are showing surprisingly little tendency to ease . japanese auto makers , for example , are increasing their production capacity in the u.s. ; the additional production should , in part , replace imported vehicles with locally manufactured ones . but although japanese companies increased their u.s. auto output by 42 % from january to september compared with the year-earlier period , their exports to the u.s. will drop only 9 % this year , nikko research center estimates 0 . in contrast to previous economic booms , japanese auto companies are n't just trying to boost production . many are pouring money into developing high-quality products to target affluent consumers and , to some extent , to avoid direct combat with cheaper cars from south korea and taiwan . others are replacing older facilities with flexible assembly lines on which different models can be turned out at once . so many companies are investing in high-tech machinery that fanuc ltd. , a robot maker , also had to build a new plant . the buildup is `` making japan clearly more efficient , more technologically advanced and more competitive , '' declares 0 a western diplomat in tokyo . but whatever its effects on exports and imports , japan 's investment boom during the past two years has been stimulated at least partly by soaring domestic demand . japan 's marathon economy , growing at 4.3 % this year , is now in its 35th month of expansion , and some economists are betting that the boom will outlast the record 57-month expansion in the late 1960s . japanese consumers are increasingly eager to spend their money , especially on high-priced goods such as 29-inch television sets and luxury cars . nissan motor co. 's domestic auto sales are up 20 % this year largely because its expensive cima , sylvia and cefiro models are in heavy demand . `` one dealer told me that if he had more cars , he 'd sell them right away , '' says takuro endo , nissan executive vice president . he adds that the company is trying to keep up with demand `` by overworking '' its employees . similarly , honda motor co. 's sales are so brisk that workers grumble 0 they have n't had a saturday off in years , despite the government 's encouragement of more leisure activity . with demand growing and workers in short supply , many japanese manufacturers are spending heavily on automation . among them are the shipbuilders , which had halved their shipyard work forces to cut costs during a prolonged slump in demand but now are capturing an increased share of the strengthening global market . sasebo heavy industries co. , a medium-sized shipbuilder , expects its sales to increase 30 % this year , largely because of rising demand for oil tankers . once one japanese company steps up its investments , the whole industry follows . because most businesses put market share above profitability , to let a competitor 's addition to capacity go unmatched is to concede defeat . the emphasis on market share is evident at daikin industries ltd. , japan 's biggest maker of industrial air conditioners . seeing new office buildings sprout up and its sales soar , daikin is building another plant , which will lift its production capacity 50 % . the expansion is aimed not just at meeting demand but also at expanding the company 's market share to 30 % from 27 % currently . besides , daikin 's major competitors , hitachi ltd. and mitsubishi heavy industries ltd. , `` are all adding production lines , '' a daikin spokesman says 0 . `` until now , we were trying to increase productivity with the facilities 0 we already had . but we ca n't produce enough anymore . '' the competition is even more heated in the auto industry , where companies are racing one another in a world-wide market . nissan aims to expand its 25 % share of the market to 30 % by spending $ 141 million on a plant in southern japan that could make as many as 240,000 cars a year . meanwhile , toyota motor corp. 's $ 247 million buildup is increasing its annual capacity by 180,000 cars , and honda is spending $ 317 million on expansion . mazda motor corp. is still considering its options , but it boldly aims to double its annual domestic sales to 800,000 cars in the next four years . those who are n't worried about how japanese manufacturers ' investments will affect trade note that many new products are n't replacements for imports . although imports account for less than 1 % of beer sales in japan , asahi breweries ltd. , which has been gaining share with its popular dry beer , plans to fend off japanese competitors by pouring $ 1.06 billion into facilities 0 to brew 50 % more beer . but new-product development will make japanese companies stronger , and big investments in `` domestic '' industries such as beer will make it even tougher for foreign competitors to crack the japanese market . moreover , much of the investment boom is in high-tech fields in which japanese companies have only limited foreign competition ; so , more investment practically assures more exports . toshiba corp. , for example , is spending $ 986 million on two new plants to build four-megabit dynamic random access memories , the next generation of computer chips . the product is n't widely used yet , but toshiba , which has already beaten everyone else in producing the current-generation one-megabit drams , believes that its early investment will heighten its chances of beating its competitors again . `` it 's important to gain leadership , '' a toshiba spokesman says . meanwhile , toshiba 's japanese rivals , hitachi , fujitsu ltd. and nec corp. , are n't sitting still . after doubling production in one plant , nec is spending $ 275 million to build another plant that , in two years , will be able to make a million four-megabit drams a year . the new chip plants `` wo n't be excessive investment , '' says 0 hajime sasaki , an nec vice president . `` we have enough products 0 to make and the markets 0 to sell these products . '' some of japan 's goods being produced as a result of the investment boom are already successful overseas . toyota 's $ 35,000 lexus automobile , a luxury model that it started shipping to the u.s. only last month , is racking up orders at a time when u.s.-made luxury-car sales are slow . toyota plans to raise lexus exports when a new plant starts up next year . what if its sales weaken someday ? japanese companies have a caveat competitor attitude . if excess capacity develops , they say 0 , not everyone will suffer . the losers will be those with the least attractive products , and many of them , analysts think 0 , will be foreign companies .