lebanese lawmakers approved a peace plan but aoun rejected it . lebanon 's parliament passed the power-sharing accord to end the country 's 14-year-old conflict , but the christian military leader wad 0 the plan was `` full of ambiguities . '' the arab league-sponsored pact , drafted during three weeks of talks at the saudi arabian resort of taif , includes syrian proposals for at least a partial troop pullout from lebanon , and guarantees an equal number of seats for moslems and christians in the parliament . the rejection by aoun , who has demanded a total and immediate pull-out of damascus 's 33,000 troops , puts the future of the agreement in doubt . northern california braced for earthquake-related traffic jams . as rescuers pressed their efforts after finding a survivor in a collapsed freeway , the san francisco bay area girded for hundreds of thousands of commuters seeking to avoid routes ravaged by last tuesday 's tremor . in oakland , officials said 0 the 57-year-old longshoreman who spent four days entombed in rubble was in critical condition with slight improvement . estimates of damage in the area , visited friday by bush , topped $ 5 billion . the baseball commissioner announced that the third game of the world series between the giants and the athletics would n't resume until friday . the u.s. . is required to notify foreign dictators of certain coup plans . under guidelines included in an exchange of letters between the reagan administration and the senate intelligence panel last year , the u.s. must inform foreign dictators of plans likely to endanger their lives . the existence of the policy became known after bush disclosed it to seven gop senators last week , citing the plan as an example of congressional requirements 0 the administration contends 0 contribute to the failure of covert actions , officials said 0 . bush conceded that the requirement did n't affect a decision to lend only minor support to this month 's failed effort to oust panama 's noriega , aides said 0 . the shuttle atlantis 's crew prepared to return to earth today several hours earlier than planned to avoid high winds forecast at the landing site at edwards air force base , calif . the five astronauts , who stowed gear and tested the spacecraft 's steering , said 0 they were unconcerned about the touchy weather expected in the mojave desert . commonwealth leaders issued a declaration giving south africa six months 0 to deliver on pledges to ease apartheid or face new reprisals . the 49-nation organization , meeting in malaysia , called for tighter financial pressure immediately . britain 's prime minister thatcher alone dissented . east germany 's leadership vowed swift action to ease travel to the west . despite the pledge by the communist rulers , tens of thousands of people across the country staged marches over the weekend to demand democratic freedoms . in leipzig , more than 500 people met with local party officials to discuss internal changes . the senate convicted federal judge alcee hastings of miami of eight impeachment articles , removing him from the bench . the chamber voted 69-26 friday to convict the judge of perjury and bribery conspiracy . it marked the first time 0 a u.s. official was impeached on charges of which a jury had acquitted him . rep. garcia and his wife were found guilty by a federal jury in new york of extorting $ 76,000 from wedtech corp. in return for official acts by the new york democrat . the jury also convicted them of extortion in obtaining a $ 20,000 interest-free loan from an officer of the defunct defense contractor . authorities in honduras launched an investigation into the cause of saturday 's crash of a honduran jetliner that killed 132 of the 146 people aboard . the boeing 727 , en route to honduras from costa rica via nicaragua , smashed into the hills outside tegucigalpa as it approached the capital 's airport in high winds and low clouds . the u.s. and israel have been holding what an aide to prime minister shamir called intense telephone negotiations in an effort to bridge differences over mideast peace moves . the labor party , meanwhile , threatened to support a parliamentary motion to topple the coalition unless shamir showed flexibility on arab-israeli talks . nicaragua 's defense ministry said 0 a group of contra rebels ambushed two trucks carrying troops in northern nicaragua , killing 18 of the soldiers . the incident occurred saturday night . the sandinista government and the u.s.-backed insurgents agreed in march to suspend offensive operations , but there has been sporadic fighting . scientists have isolated a molecule that may hold potential as a treatment for disruptions of the immune system , ranging from organ-transplant rejection , to allergies and asthma , immunex corp. said 0 . the molecule is the mouse version of a protein called the interleukin-4 receptor , which directs the growth and function of white blood cells . died : alfred hayes , 79 , former president of the federal reserve bank of new york , saturday , in new canaan , conn .