first , there was a death watch . then exhilaration . spurred by waves of large-scale buying in blue-chip stocks , the dow jones industrial average rallied yesterday and erased about a half of friday 's 190.58-point plunge , gaining 88.12 to 2657.38 . it was the fourth-biggest advance for the average of 30 blue chips , on frenetic new york stock exchange volume of 416,290,000 shares -- the highest since the days after the 1987 crash . while the advance cheered investors who feared 0 a 1987-style crash would occur yesterday , it was strictly a big-stock rally fed by huge buying by bargain-hunting institutions and program traders . a troubling sign : declining stocks on the big board outnumbered advancers , 975 to 749 , and the over-the-counter market that includes many smaller stocks suffered aftershocks of friday 's late big board plunge . the nasdaq otc index closed down 6.31 to 460.98 . meanwhile , in a divergence in two of the market 's most important indicators , the dow industrials ' sister average , the 20-stock dow jones transportation average , tumbled 102.06 to 1304.23 -- its second-worst decline next to the 164.78-point fall during the 1987 crash . transports plunged on takeover disappointments in two airline stocks , ual and amr , which each fell more than 20 % when they reopened for trading yesterday after being suspended friday afternoon . ual , the takeover stock at the center of friday 's 190.58-point market plunge , fell 56 7\/8 to 222 7\/8 on nearly 2.3 million shares . overall , `` this is a pleasant rally but it 's very selective , '' said 0 arthur cashin jr. , a veteran painewebber inc. trader at the big board . `` everyone was a little concerned about the general narrowness of the rally and failure of the otc market to get into plus territory . it 's just a strange feeling . i do n't think 0 anyone left the place whistling dixie . '' the rally gave credence , at least for now , to the pre-trading declaration of big board chairman john j. phelan jr. that friday 's market debacle was `` an abnormal condition , and not a disaster . '' but to traders , it looked like disaster on the 9:30 a.m. opening bell . the dow jones industrial average opened down 1.64 shortly after 9:30 . but most of the 30 blue-chip stocks in the average , including eastman kodak and general motors , could n't trade because of the heavy backlog of sell orders left over from friday 's late-afternoon rout . at 9:45 , procter & gamble -- one of the most important dow bellwethers of late -- opened down 2 3\/4 to 117 . the dow dropped to a quick 27-point loss , and to many traders it looked as if stocks were headed for yet another big tumble . more stocks opened over the ensuing half hour , as the 49 big board specialist firms in charge of keeping the market orderly groped to find buy orders from major brokerage firms 0 to match the selling flood . then , to make matters worse , computerized sell programs kicked in , hammering stocks into steeper losses . there was heavy stock-index arbitrage , as traders sold big baskets of stock and bought stock-index futures to profit from the price discrepancies between the two markets . this was a hangover from friday , when standard & poor 's 500-stock index futures had closed at a sharp discount to stocks . the onslaught of the program selling dashed any hopes that some of the big program trading firms would hold off until the market stabilized . they did n't . the dow accelerated its slide , losing 63.52 in the first 40 minutes of trading . with program traders seemingly in charge , buyers backed away from the market and watched stocks fall . then at 10:15 the dow suddenly started to rebound , and when it shot upward it did so even faster than the early-morning fall . and this time , it was n't just the program traders who were responsible . all the selling had pushed stocks to such cheap values that big investment banks and major money management firms started buying stocks heavily . the program traders were in there , too , of course . but according to one trader , the programmers `` did n't look as dominant on the upside as on the downside because there was -lcb- also -rcb- a lot of bargain-hunting '' by institutions . roland m. machold , director of the new jersey division of investment , which oversees $ 29 billion in investments , said 0 the `` first thing 0 we did was to double our orders '' yesterday morning . `` with the market down like this , we 'll probably take another $ 50 million and put it in '' the market . trading in walt disney co. particularly caught traders ' eyes . according to big board officials , disney had one of the biggest sell-order imbalances on friday ; it was one of the seven stocks that could n't finish trading that day . the stock opened late at 114 1\/2 , down 8 1\/2 . but then it shot upward 7 1\/2 as goldman , sachs & co. stepped in and bought , traders said 0 . however , disney specialist robert fagenson said : `` i would be surprised if goldman represented 4 % of the opening volume . '' around wall street , trading desks were relieved that they could at least play the market yesterday , in contrast to friday 's gridlock . at donaldson , lufkin & jenrette inc. , head equity trader dudley eppel said : `` i think 0 the opening was constructive . it was orderly . we put some orders together . there was n't a lot of panic selling , either domestically or internationally ... . not like friday where they just took -lcb- the market -rcb- apart . '' still , the market had n't yet crossed into positive territory , and traders were glum . but in another dramatic burst , the dow tacked on 42 points in five minutes , and at 10:25 the index showed a gain of 5.74 . on the big board floor and on trading desks , traders yelped their approval . grinned griffith peck , a trader in shearson lehman hutton inc. 's otc department : `` i tell you , 0 this market acts healthy . '' around him , scores of traders seemed to get a burst of energy ; their boss broke out bottles of perrier water to cool them off . among big board specialists , the cry was `` pull your offers '' -- meaning that specialists soon expected to get higher prices for their shares . `` it was bedlam on the upside , '' said one big board specialist . but not everybody was making money . the carnage on the chicago board options exchange , the nation 's major options market , was heavy after the trading in s&p 100 stock-index options was halted friday . many market makers in the s&p 100 index options contract had bullish positions friday , and when the shutdown came they were frozen with huge losses . over the weekend , clearing firms told the chicago market makers to get out of their positions at any cost monday morning . `` they were absolutely killed , slaughtered , '' said one chicago-based options trader . some traders said that the closely watched major market index , whose 20 stocks mimic the dow industrials , did n't lead yesterday 's big rally . james gallagher , a partner at specialist fowler & rosenau , said , `` the difference between today and two years ago '' -- `` terrible tuesday , '' oct. 20 , 1987 -- `` is that then we needed a savior to go into the major market index , spend $ 2 million and get the program rally started . this time -lcb- institutions -rcb- saw the programs coming and backed away and backed away . then when the market was at a technical level 0 to buy , they came in with a vengeance . '' however , according to one analyst , the timing of major market index futures buying just before the turnaround was similar to that of terrible tuesday . `` futures were pulling the stock market higher , '' said donald selkin , head of stock-index futures research at prudential-bache securities inc . although the big board 's specialist firms struggled through another highly volatile trading session , their performance yesterday was better than during friday 's late-afternoon chaos , according to traders and brokers who work with them . specialists were criticized for their inability to maintain orderly markets during the friday plunge . but yesterday , even with halts in such major blue-chip stocks as merck , `` we expected -lrb- the halts -rrb- and it was n't too bad , '' said 0 donaldson 's mr. eppel , who had been critical of the specialists ' performance on friday . according to a big board official , while many stocks opened late , there were subsequent trading halts in only three issues -- amr , merck and valero energy . merck is one of the most important stocks in the major market index . no sector of the market has been spared during the past two days ' gyrations . yet from the dow industrials ' high on oct. 9 through friday 's plunge , relatively good performances have been turned in by real-estate , utilities , precious metals and life insurance stocks . and yesterday , the top performing industry group was oil field equipment issues . for example , halliburton jumped 3 1\/4 to 38 , schlumberger rose 2 1\/2 to 43 1\/4 and baker hughes rose 1 1\/8 to 22 . because of the ual and amr tumbles , airlines were the weakest sector of the market yesterday . philip morris was the big board 's most active issue , rising 2 1\/4 to 43 1\/4 on nearly eight million shares . among other major issues , coca-cola co. closed up 2 at 66 3\/4 on 1.7 million shares and american telephone & telegraph rose 3 1\/4 to 43 on nearly 7.8 million shares . shares of international business machines , which reported earnings yesterday , finished at 103 , up 1 , after slipping below 100 during friday 's session for the first time in five years . shares of three brokerage firms rose after they reported earnings . merrill lynch added 1 3\/4 to 28 , painewebber rose 3\/4 to 18 1\/2 and bear stearns rose 3\/8 to 14 1\/4 . federal national mortgage association , a recently hot stock , climbed 4 to 124 on nearly 1.6 million shares . at a news conference after the close of trading yesterday , the big board 's mr. phelan and other exchange officials praised the performance of their computers and personnel . mr. phelan said that program trading strategies were n't responsible for triggering friday 's decline despite a jump in the use of the computer-driven strategies in recent months . some 24 million of the more than 100 million shares traded in the final 90 minutes of friday 's session , when the plunge in stock prices was concentrated , were program-related , he said 0 . program trades make up 10 % of the exchange 's volume on an average day , but despite the increase friday , it was `` certainly not something 0 you would say 0 precipitated the market decline , '' mr. phelan said 0 . mr. phelan expressed relief that the market rebounded yesterday . `` obviously , every time 0 we get this kind of reaction , it 's going to make everybody nervous , including me , '' he said . he said that exchange officials had conversations with wall street firms throughout the weekend and that `` all the participants behaved very , very responsibly today . '' meanwhile , peter dapuzzo , shearson 's head of retail equity trading , praised institutional investors in the otc market , who were heavy buyers of the nasdaq 's biggest technology issues yesterday amid a flood of selling by other investors . `` the institutions ca n't be criticized for their behavior , '' mr. dapuzzo said in an interview . `` it was the opposite of what happened on oct. 19 . they used their judgment . they did n't panic during the first round of selling this morning . instead , they bought on weakness and sold into the strength , which kept the market orderly . maybe they learned from experience . '' mr. phelan said 0 the performance of specialists during friday 's plunge was admirable , because out of 1,640 big board common stocks traded during the day only seven were closed and were n't reopened before the close . `` they did an excellent job , '' mr. phelan said of the specialists . wall street traders on friday had complained about the trading suspensions . james a. white and sonja steptoe contributed to this article .