dentsu inc. , the world 's largest advertising agency on the strength of its dominance in the japanese market , is setting its sights on overseas expansion . last year , dentsu started hdm , a joint network with u.s. ad agency young & rubicam and eurocom of france . a few months ago , dentsu acquired 69 % of australian agency fortune communication holdings ltd. for 5.9 million australian dollars -lrb- us$ 4.6 million -rrb- . dentsu has u.s. subsidiaries , but they keep low profiles . now , the giant marketing company , which holds 25 % of japan 's 4.4 trillion yen -lrb- $ 30.96 billion -rrb- advertising industry , is considering the acquisition of an advertising network in the u.s. or europe . what is driving dentsu 's international expansion largely is the need to keep up with its japanese clients as they grow in the u.s. and europe . `` if we do n't do something ... we wo n't be able to catch up with demand , '' says a dentsu spokesman . `` our president said 0 acquisition is an effective method . '' last year , dentsu 's foreign business accounted for less than 10 % of total billings , but the company is aiming at 20 % in the near future . so far , it appears cautious about taking the big step . for example , the spokesman says 0 dentsu has been approached by banks and securities companies a number of times to invest in the troubled british marketing group saatchi & saatchi plc . but he said 0 dentsu has n't looked seriously at saatchi . though dentsu says 0 it has no concrete acquisition plans or deadlines , it is laying the groundwork for international growth . it is setting up a special team in charge of international markets and training workers to do business abroad . for the year ended march 31 , dentsu sales rose 19 % to $ 8.9 billion from $ 7.5 billion , and net income jumped 59 % to $ 102 million from $ 64 million . dentsu 's billings last year were larger than those of young & rubicam , the world 's second-largest ad agency , according to a survey by the publication advertising age . but success overseas in unfamiliar markets could be trickier than for other industries such as manufacturers . on its own , dentsu 's muscle in japan may count for little in major foreign markets when seeking non-japanese clients . thus , an acquisition may prove the necessary course . but japanese agencies are cautious about expanding abroad because client relationships are different . japanese agencies do business with rival clients in the same industry , a practice `` that would be unacceptable by traditional western conflict rules , '' says 0 roy warman , the london chief executive of saatchi & saatchi 's communications division . although acquiring a foreign company would expand japanese advertising agencies ' business to foreign clients , many clients would also be japanese companies expanding overseas , says 0 the dentsu spokesman . but the different business system would make it hard for dentsu to provide these japanese companies the same kind of services 0 they do in japan .