commonwealth edison co. was ordered to refund about $ 250 million to its current and former ratepayers for illegal rates collected for cost overruns on a nuclear power plant . the refund was about $ 55 million more than previously ordered by the illinois commerce commission and trade groups said 0 it may be the largest ever required of a state or local utility . state court judge richard curry ordered edison to make average refunds of about $ 45 to $ 50 each to edison customers who have received electric service since april 1986 , including about two million customers who have moved during that period . judge curry ordered the refunds to begin feb. 1 and said that he would n't entertain any appeals or other attempts to block his order by commonwealth edison . `` the refund pool ... may not be held hostage through another round of appeals , '' judge curry said . commonwealth edison said 0 it is already appealing the underlying commission order and is considering appealing judge curry 's order . the exact amount of the refund will be determined next year based on actual collections made until dec. 31 of this year . commonwealth edison said 0 the ruling could force it to slash its 1989 earnings by $ 1.55 a share . for 1988 , commonwealth edison reported earnings of $ 737.5 million , or $ 3.01 a share . a commonwealth edison spokesman said that tracking down the two million customers whose addresses have changed during the past 3 1\/2 years would be `` an administrative nightmare . '' in new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday , commonwealth edison closed at $ 38.375 , down 12.5 cents . the $ 2.5 billion byron 1 plant near rockford , ill. , was completed in 1985 . in a disputed 1985 ruling , the commerce commission said 0 commonwealth edison could raise its electricity rates by $ 49 million to pay for the plant . but state courts upheld a challenge by consumer groups to the commission 's rate increase and found the rates illegal . the illinois supreme court ordered the commission to audit commonwealth edison 's construction expenses and refund any unreasonable expenses . the utility has been collecting for the plant 's construction cost from its 3.1 million customers subject to a refund since 1986 . in august , the commission ruled that between $ 190 million and $ 195 million of the plant 's construction cost was unreasonable and should be refunded , plus interest . in his ruling , judge curry added an additional $ 55 million to the commission 's calculations . last month , judge curry set the interest rate on the refund at 9 % . commonwealth edison now faces an additional court-ordered refund on its summer\/winter rate differential collections that the illinois appellate court has estimated at $ 140 million . and consumer groups hope that judge curry 's byron 1 order may set a precedent for a second nuclear rate case involving commonwealth edison 's braidwood 2 plant . commonwealth edison is seeking about $ 245 million in rate increases 0 to pay for braidwood 2 . the commission is expected to rule on the braidwood 2 case by year end . last year commonwealth edison had to refund $ 72.7 million for poor performance of its lasalle i nuclear plant .