bond prices took the high road and stock prices took the low road as worries mounted about the economy and the junk bond market . the dow jones industrial average fell 26.23 points to 2662.91 in sluggish trading . but long-term treasury bonds staged a modest rally , with prices on most issues rising about half a point , or $ 5 for each $ 1,000 face amount . the dollar sagged against other major currencies in lethargic trading . traders and analysts said 0 the divergence between the stock and bond markets is a sign of growing unease about the economic outlook . a sinking economy depresses corporate earnings and thus stock prices , but it buoys bond prices as interest rates fall . that unease is expected to grow today when the government reports on september durable goods orders and again thursday when the first assessment of third-quarter economic growth is released . analysts say 0 they think 0 durable goods orders fell about 1 % , compared with a 3.9 % gain in august , and that growth in the third quarter slowed to about 2.3 % from the second quarter 's 2.5 % . the stock market 's decline , coming after a record weekly gain of 119.88 points , surprised some investors . but a.c. moore , director of research at argus research , said 0 last week 's rally was a reflex reaction to the oct. 13 stock market rout . overall , he said 0 , the trend in stock prices will be down as the economy weakens . `` we think 0 we 're on target in looking for renewed economic deterioration , '' he said . `` corporate profits are going to decrease faster than interest rates will fall , and the probability is that we 'll see negative economic growth in the fourth quarter . '' hugh johnson , chief investment officer at first albany corp. , agreed that a deteriorating economy is worrisome , but he said 0 the real concern among stock investors is that some new problem will crop up in the junk bond market . in major market activity : stock prices slumped in sluggish trading . volume on the new york stock exchange totaled 135.9 million shares . declining issues on the big board were ahead of gainers , 1,012 to 501 . bond prices rallied . the yield on the treasury 's benchmark 30-year bond slipped to 7.93 % . the dollar weakened against most other major currencies . in late new york trading , the dollar was quoted at 1.8470 marks and 141.90 yen , compared with 1.8578 marks and 142.43 yen late friday .