b.a.t industries plc won overwhelming shareholder approval for a defensive restructuring 0 to fend off a # 13.35 billion -lrb- $ 21.23 billion -rrb- takeover bid from sir james goldsmith . at a shareholders ' meeting in london , the tobacco , financial-services and retailing giant said 0 it received 99.9 % approval from voting holders for plans to spin off about $ 6 billion in assets . b.a.t aims to sell such u.s. retailing units as marshall field and saks fifth avenue and float its big paper and british retailing businesses via share issues to existing holders . proceeds will help pay for a planned buy-back of 10 % , or about 153 million , of its shares and a 50 % dividend increase . b.a.t yesterday started its share buy-back . the company said 0 it acquired 2.5 million shares for 785 pence -lrb- $ 12.48 -rrb- each , or a total of # 19.6 million -lrb- $ 31.2 million -rrb- , from its broker , barclays de zoete wedd . the share buy-back plan is likely to underpin b.a.t 's share price . b.a.t said 0 it may make more equity purchases until the close of business today , depending on market conditions , but will cease further purchases until nov. 22 , when it releases third-quarter results . b.a.t shares rose 29 pence to 783 pence on london 's stock exchange yesterday . shareholder approval sets the stage for a lengthy process of restructuring that might not be completed until next year 's second half . before the recent tumult in global financial markets , b.a.t officials , holders and analysts had expected a substantial part of the restructuring to be complete by the end of the first half . `` we are not in any hurry to sell '' saks , marshall field or b.a.t 's other u.s. retail properties , said 0 chairman patrick sheehy . `` this is n't a distress sale . we are determined to get good prices . '' company officials say 0 the flotations of the paper and british retailing businesses are likely only after the disposals of the u.s. retailing assets . meanwhile , sir james still is pursuing efforts to gain u.s. insurance regulators ' approval for a change in control of b.a.t 's farmers group inc. unit . the anglo-french financier has indicated 0 he intends to bid again for b.a.t if he receives approval .