when the price of plastics took off in 1987 , quantum chemical corp. went along for the ride . the timing of quantum 's chief executive officer , john hoyt stookey , appeared to be nothing less than inspired , because he had just increased quantum 's reliance on plastics . the company outpaced much of the chemical industry as annual profit grew fivefold in two years . mr. stookey said of the boom , 0 `` it 's going to last a whole lot longer than anybody thinks 0 . '' but now prices have nose-dived and quantum 's profit is plummeting . some securities analysts are looking for no better than break-even results from the company for the third quarter , compared with year-earlier profit of $ 99.8 million , or $ 3.92 a share , on sales of $ 724.4 million . the stock , having lost nearly a quarter of its value since sept. 1 , closed at $ 34.375 share , down $ 1.125 , in new york stock exchange composite trading friday . to a degree , quantum represents the new times that have arrived for producers of the so-called commodity plastics that pervade modern life . having just passed through one of the most profitable periods in their history , these producers now see their prices eroding . pricing cycles , to be sure , are nothing new for plastics producers . and the financial decline of some looks steep only in comparison with the heady period that is just behind them . `` we were all wonderful heroes last year , '' says an executive at one of quantum 's competitors . `` now we 're at the bottom of the heap . '' at quantum , which is based in new york , the trouble is magnified by the company 's heavy dependence on plastics . once known as national distillers & chemical corp. , the company exited the wine and spirits business and plowed more of its resources into plastics after mr. stookey took the chief executive 's job in 1986 . mr. stookey , 59 years old , declined to be interviewed for this article , but he has consistently argued that over the long haul -- across both the peaks and the troughs of the plastics market -- quantum will prosper through its new direction . quantum 's lot is mostly tied to polyethylene resin , used to make garbage bags , milk jugs , housewares , toys and meat packaging , among other items . in the u.s. polyethylene market , quantum has claimed the largest share , about 20 % . but its competitors -- including dow chemical co. , union carbide corp. and several oil giants -- have much broader business interests and so are better cushioned against price swings . when the price of polyethylene moves a mere penny a pound , quantum 's annual profit fluctuates by about 85 cents a share , provided 0 no other variables are changing . in recent months the price of polyethylene , even more than that of other commodity plastics , has taken a dive . benchmark grades , which still sold for as much as 50 cents a pound last spring , have skidded to between 35 cents and 40 cents . meanwhile , the price of ethylene , the chemical building block of polyethylene , has n't dropped nearly so fast . that discrepancy hurts quantum badly , because its own plants cover only about half of its ethylene needs . by many accounts , an early hint of a price rout in the making came at the start of this year . china , which had been putting in huge orders for polyethylene , abruptly halted them . calculating that excess polyethylene would soon be sloshing around the world , other buyers then bet that prices had peaked and so began to draw down inventories rather than order new product . kenneth mitchell , director of dow 's polyethylene business , says 0 producers were surprised to learn how much inventories had swelled throughout the distribution chain as prices spiraled up . `` people were even hoarding bags , '' he says . now producers hope 0 prices have hit bottom . they recently announced increases of a few cents a pound 0 to take effect in the next several weeks . no one knows , however , whether the new posted prices will stick once producers and customers start to haggle . one doubter is george krug , a chemical-industry analyst at oppenheimer & co. and a bear on plastics stocks . noting others ' estimates of when price increases can be sustained , he remarks , 0 `` some say october . some say november . i say 1992 . '' he argues that efforts to firm up prices will be undermined by producers ' plans to expand production capacity . a quick turnaround is crucial to quantum because its cash requirements remain heavy . the company is trying to carry out a three-year , $ 1.3 billion plant-expansion program started this year . at the same time , its annual payments on long-term debt will more than double from a year ago to about $ 240 million , largely because of debt taken on to pay a $ 50-a-share special dividend earlier this year . quantum described the payout at the time as a way 0 for it to share the bonanza with its holders , because its stock price was n't reflecting the huge profit increases . some analysts saw the payment as an effort also to dispel takeover speculation . whether a cash crunch might eventually force the company to cut its quarterly dividend , raised 36 % to 75 cents a share only a year ago , has become a topic of intense speculation on wall street since mr. stookey deflected dividend questions in a sept. 29 meeting with analysts . some viewed his response -- that company directors review the dividend regularly -- as nothing more than the standard line from executives . but others came away thinking 0 he had given something less than his usual straight-from-the-shoulder performance . in any case , on the day of the meeting , quantum 's shares slid $ 2.625 to $ 36.625 in big board trading . on top of everything else , quantum confronts a disaster at its plant in morris , ill . after an explosion idled the plant in june , the company progressed in september to within 12 hours of completing the drawn-out process of restarting it . then a second explosion occurred . two workers died and six remain in the hospital . this human toll adds the most painful dimension yet to the sudden change in quantum 's fortunes . until this year , the company had been steadily lowering its accident rate and picking up trade-group safety awards . a prolonged production halt at the plant could introduce another imponderable into quantum 's financial future . when a plant has just been running flat out to meet demand , calculating lost profit and thus claims under business-interruption insurance is straightforward . but the numbers become trickier -- and subject to dickering between insured and insurer -- when demand is shifting . `` you say 0 you could have sold x percent of this product and y percent of that , '' recalls theodore semegran , an analyst at shearson lehman hutton who went through this exercise during his former career as a chemical engineer . `` and then you still have to negotiate . '' quantum hopes 0 the morris plant , where limited production got under way last week , will resume full operation by year 's end . the plant usually accounts for 20 % to 25 % of quantum 's polyethylene production and 50 % of its ethylene production . not everything looks grim for quantum . the plant expansion should strengthen the company 's sway in the polyethylene business , where market share is often taken through sheer capacity . by lifting ethylene production , the expansion will also lower the company 's raw material costs . quantum is also tightening its grip on its one large business outside chemicals , propane marketing . through a venture with its investment banker , first boston corp. , quantum completed in august an acquisition of petrolane inc. in a transaction valued at $ 1.18 billion . petrolane is the second-largest propane distributor in the u.s. . the largest , suburban propane , was already owned by quantum . still , quantum has a crisis 0 to get past right now . some analysts speculate 0 the weakening stock may yet attract a suitor . the name surfacing in rumors is british petroleum co. , which is looking to expand its polyethylene business in the u.s. . asked about a bid for quantum , a bp spokesman says , `` 0 we pretty much have a policy of not commenting on rumors , and i think 0 that falls in that category .