ingersoll publications co. agreed to buy the new haven register in a transaction valued at $ 275 million from goodson newspaper group inc . as part of the agreement , goodson also terminated the contract under which ingersoll manages goodson 's 66 newspapers , ending a long association between the two companies that has turned increasingly bitter recently . goodson has accused ingersoll of paying less attention to its properties and more to such ventures as the recent launch of the st. louis sun . under the terms of the accord , ingersoll will pay about $ 255 million for the register , a daily that goodson bought for about $ 170 million in 1986 . goodson will pay the additional $ 20 million in settlement of the management contract . goodson also announced that it hired the former president and senior vice president of ingersoll 0 to run the goodson papers . both executives left the company after clashes with chairman ralph ingersoll jr . goodson , which is based here , will use part of the proceeds to pay down debt associated with its purchase of the morristown daily record for $ 155 million in 1987 . the new jersey paper , like the new haven , conn. , paper , was purchased by ingersoll on goodson 's behalf as part of the management contract . industry analysts have said that the purchase price for the paper was too high , causing a strain on goodson 's finances . investment bankers familiar with the company said 0 goodson is seeking a new bank credit line of $ 190 million and may have to sell additional newspapers . david n. hurwitz , president and chief operating officer of goodson , said in a telephone interview that the company does n't currently have any plans to sell additional newspapers . goodson said 0 david carr , former president of ingersoll publications , and ray cockburn , former senior vice president , would head the new in-house management team at goodson , which had revenue of $ 225 million in 1988 . the association between the two companies stretches back thirty years to a friendship between television producer mark goodson and ingersoll founder ralph ingersoll . the latter 's son , ralph ingersoll jr. , took over the company and has been managing the goodson properties and acting as an agent in the purchase of newspapers for goodson . but in recent years , mr. ingersoll began focusing more on expanding his own newspaper empire in partnership with investment banking firm warburg , pincus & co . ingersoll has 28 dailies and 200 other non-daily papers in the u.s. and europe . the company said 0 its revenue will exceed $ 750 million this year . ingersoll president robert m. jelenic said in a statement that the company is `` delighted by the conclusion of the goodson relationship '' and will be able to `` concentrate all our energies '' on ingersoll 's own papers . mr. goodson , in his own statement , was less upbeat , saying `` unfortunately over the past few years , it has become increasingly clear that ralph and i have different agendas , '' and that he feels `` more comfortable with a management team whose sole interest and responsibility is in the goodson papers .