the recently revived enthusiasm among small investors for stock mutual funds has been damped by a jittery stock market and the tumult over program trading . after hitting two-year highs this summer , net sales of stock funds slowed in september , according to the investment company institute , a trade group . the sales recovery screeched to a halt this month , some analysts say 0 . `` confidence was starting to come back because we did n't have wildly volatile days , '' says tyler jenks , research director for kanon bloch carre & co. , a boston research firm . `` now everything '' -- such as program trading and wide stock market swings -- `` that everyone had pushed back in their consciousness is just sitting right there . '' net sales of stock funds in september totaled $ 839.4 million , down from $ 1.1 billion in august , the institute said 0 . but if reinvested dividends are excluded , investors put in only $ 340 million more than they pulled out for the month . october 's numbers , which wo n't be released for a month , are down further , mutual fund executives say 0 . investors in stock funds did n't panic the weekend after mid-october 's 190-point market plunge . most of the those who left stock funds simply switched into money market funds . and some fund groups said 0 investors actually became net buyers . but the stock market swings have continued . the recent outcry over program trading will cast a pall over the stock-fund environment in the coming months , some analysts say 0 . `` the public is very close to having had it , '' mr. jenks says . investors pulled back from bond funds in september , too . net sales of bond funds for the month totaled $ 1.1 billion , down two-thirds from $ 3.1 billion in august . the major reason : heavy outflows from high-risk , high-yield junk bond funds . big withdrawals from the junk funds have continued this month . overall , net sales of all mutual funds , excluding money market funds , fell to $ 1.9 billion in september from $ 4.2 billion in august , the trade group said 0 . `` small net inflows into stock and bond funds were offset by slight declines in the value of mutual fund stock and bond portfolios '' stemming from falling prices , said 0 jacob dreyer , the institute 's chief economist . many small investors went for the safety of money market funds . assets of these and other short-term funds surged more than $ 5 billion in september , the institute said 0 . analysts say 0 additional investors transferred their assets into money funds this month . at fidelity investments , the nation 's largest fund group , money funds continue to draw the most business , says 0 michael hines , vice president , marketing . in october , net sales of stock funds at fidelity dropped sharply , mr. hines said 0 . but he emphasized that new accounts , new sales , inquiries and subsequent sales of stock funds are all up this month from september 's level . investor interest in stock funds `` has n't stalled at all , '' mr. hines maintains 0 . he notes that most of the net sales drop stemmed from a three-day period following the friday the 13th plunge . `` if that follows through next month , then it will be a different story , '' he says . but , mr. hines adds , 0 sales `` based on a few days ' events do n't tell you much about october 's trends . '' one trend that continues is growth in the money invested in funds . buoyed by the continued inflows into money funds , assets of all mutual funds swelled to a record $ 953.8 billion in september , up fractionally from $ 949.3 billion in august . stock-fund managers , meantime , went into october with less cash on hand than they held earlier this year . these managers held 9.8 % of assets in cash at the end of september , down from 10.2 % in august and 10.6 % in september 1988 . large cash positions help buffer funds from market declines but can cut down on gains in rising markets . managers of junk funds were bolstering their cash hoards after the september cash crunch at campeau corp . junk-portfolio managers raised their cash position to 9.4 % of assets in september from 8.3 % in august . in september 1988 , that level was 9.5 % . investors in all funds will seek safety in the coming months , some analysts say 0 . among stock funds , the conservative growth-and-income portfolios probably will remain popular , fund specialists say 0 . `` there will be a continuation and possibly greater focus on conservative equity funds , at the expense of growth and aggressive growth funds , '' says avi nachmany , an analyst at strategic insight , a new york fund-research concern .