the federal reserve system is the standard object of suggestions for organizational and institutional changes , for two reasons . first , its position in the government is anomalous . it has an unusual kind of independence from elected officials and still has authority over one of the most powerful of government 's instruments -- the control of the money supply . thus we have a condition that is easily described as undemocratic . second , the responsibilities of the federal reserve as guardian of the currency , which means as guardian of the stability of the price level , sometimes lead it to take measures that are unpopular . as former fed chairman william mcchesney martin used to say , they would have to take the punch bowl away just as the party is getting interesting . so the federal reserve is an attractive target for complaint by politicians . the fed is easily assigned the blame for unpleasantness , like high interest rates or slow economic growth , while the politicians can escape responsibility by pointing to the fed 's independence . this leads to proposals for `` reform '' of the fed , which have the common feature of making the fed more responsive to the administration , to the congress and to public opinion -- without , however , any assumption of additional responsibility by the politicians . these proposals include changing the term of the chairman , shortening the terms of the members , eliminating the presidents of the federal reserve banks from the decision-making process , putting the secretary of the treasury on the federal reserve board , having the fed audited by an arm of congress -lrb- the general accounting office -rrb- , putting the fed 's expenditures in the budget , and requiring prompt publication of the fed 's minutes . some of these ideas are again under consideration in congress . but these proposals do not rest on a view of what the fed 's problem is or , if they do , they rest on an incorrect view . they would not solve the problem ; they would make it worse . the problem is not that the fed is too unresponsive to the public interest . on the contrary , it is too responsive to an incorrect view of the public interest . the price level in the u.s. is now about 4 1\/4 times as high as it was 30 years ago . on average , something that cost $ 100 30 years ago now costs $ 425 . or , a wage that was $ 100 30 years ago would buy only $ 23.53 worth of stuff today . on two occasions the inflation rate rose to more than 10 % a year . in each case the ending of this unsustainable inflation caused a severe recession -- the two worst of the postwar period . the enormous inflation over the past 30 years was largely due to monetary policy . at least , it would not have happened without the support of monetary policy that provided for a 10-fold increase in the money supply during the same period . and that increase in the money supply would not have happened without the consent of the federal reserve . the basic problem of monetary policy , to which reform of the fed should be addressed , is to prevent a recurrence of this experience . there were two general reasons for the mistaken monetary policy of the past 30 years : 1 . to some extent the federal reserve shared the popular but incorrect view that expansionary monetary policy could yield a net improvement in employment and output . 2 . even where the fed did not share this view it felt the need to accommodate to it . despite all the formal provisions for its independence , the fed seems constantly to feel that if it uses its independence too freely it will lose it . the common proposals for reforming the fed would only make the situation worse , if they had any effect at all . putting the secretary of the treasury on the board of governors , one of the leading proposals today , is an example . the secretary is the world 's biggest borrower of money . he has a built-in , constant longing for lower interest rates . moreover , he is a political agent of a political president , who naturally gives extraordinary weight to the way 0 the economy will perform before the next election , and less to its longer-run health . these days , the secretary suffers the further disqualification that he is a member of a club of seven finance ministers who meet occasionally to decide what exchange rates should be , which is a diversion from the real business of the federal reserve to stabilize the price level . how should a reasonable member of the federal reserve board interpret a congressional decision to put the secretary on the board ? could he plausibly interpret it as encouragement for the fed to give primary emphasis to stabilizing the price level ? or would he interpret it as instruction to give more weight to these other objectives that the secretary represents -- low interest rates , short-run economic expansion , and stabilization of exchange rates at internationally managed levels ? the answer seems perfectly clear . -lrb- true , a succession of fed chairmen has given color to the notion that the secretary of the treasury belongs on the fed . by their constant readiness to advise all and sundry about federal budgetary matters the chairmen have encouraged the belief that fiscal policy and monetary policy are ingredients of a common stew , in which case it is natural that the fed and the treasury , and probably also the congress , should be jointly engaged in stirring the pot . the fed 's case for its own independence would be a little stronger if it were more solicitous of the independence of the rest of the government . -rrb- the fed 's problem is not that it is too independent , or too unpolitical . the fed is responsive to , and can not help being responsive to , the more overtly political part of the government . the fed exercises a power given to it by congress and the president . but congress and the president accept no responsibility for the exercise of the power 0 they have given the fed . critics of the present arrangement are correct to say that it is undemocratic . what is undemocratic is the unwillingness of the more political parts of the government to take the responsibility for deciding the basic question of monetary policy , which is what priority should be given to stabilizing the price level . to leave this decision to an `` independent '' agency is not only undemocratic . it also prevents the conduct of a policy that has a long-term rationale , because it leaves the fed guessing about what are the expectations of its masters , the politicians , who have never had to consider the long-term consequences of monetary policy . the greatest contribution 0 congress could make at this time would be to declare that stabilizing the price level is the primary responsibility of the federal reserve system . legislation to this effect has been introduced in congress in this session by rep. stephen neal -lrb- d. , n.c . -rrb- . it is not the kind of thing that is likely to be enacted , however . congress would be required to make a hard decision , and congress would much prefer to leave the hard decision to the fed and retain its rights of complaint after the fact . people will say that the nation and the government have other objectives , in addition to stabilizing the price level , which is true . but that is not the same as saying that the federal reserve has other objectives . the government has other agencies and instruments for pursuing these other objectives . but it has only the fed 0 to pursue price-level stability . and the fed has at most very limited ability to contribute to the achievement of other objectives by means other than by stabilizing the price level . the two objectives most commonly thought to be legitimate competitors for the attention of the fed are high employment and rapid real growth . but the main lesson of economic policy in the past 30 years is that if the fed compromises with the price-stability objective in the pursuit of these other goals , the result is not high employment and rapid growth but is inflation . a former chairman of the president 's council of economic advisers , mr. stein is an american enterprise institute fellow .