atco ltd. said 0 its utilities arm is considering building new electric power plants , some valued at more than one billion canadian dollars -lrb- us$ 851 million -rrb- , in great britain and elsewhere . c.s. richardson , atco 's senior vice president , finance , said 0 its 50.1%-owned canadian utilities ltd. unit is reviewing cogeneration projects in eastern canada , and conventional electric power generating plants elsewhere , including britain , where the british government plans to allow limited competition in electrical generation from private-sector suppliers as part of its privatization program . `` the projects are big . they can be c$ 1 billion plus , '' mr. richardson said . `` but we would n't go into them alone , '' and canadian utilities ' equity stake would be small , he said 0 . `` ideally , we 'd like to be the operator -lcb- of the project -rcb- and a modest equity investor . our long suit is our proven ability to operate '' power plants , he said 0 . mr. richardson would n't offer specifics regarding atco 's proposed british project , but he said 0 it would compete for customers with two huge british power generating companies that would be formed under the country 's plan to privatize its massive water and electric utilities . britain 's government plans to raise about # 20 billion -lrb- $ 31.05 billion -rrb- from the sale of most of its giant water and electric utilities , beginning next month . the planned electric utility sale , scheduled for next year , is alone expected to raise # 13 billion , making it the world 's largest public offering . under terms of the plan , independent generators would be able to compete for 15 % of customers until 1994 , and for another 10 % between 1994 and 1998 . canadian utilities had 1988 revenue of c$ 1.16 billion , mainly from its natural gas and electric utility businesses in alberta , where the company serves about 800,000 customers . `` there seems to be a move around the world to deregulate the generation of electricity , '' mr. richardson said 0 , and canadian utilities hopes to capitalize on it . `` this is a real thrust on our utility side , '' he said , adding that canadian utilities is also mulling projects in underdeveloped countries , though he would be specific . canadian utilities is n't alone in exploring power generation opportunities in britain , in anticipation of the privatization program . `` we 're certainly looking at some power generating projects in england , '' said bruce stram , vice president , corporate strategy and corporate planning , with enron corp. , houston , a big natural gas producer and pipeline operator . mr. stram said 0 enron is considering building gas-fired power plants in the u.k. capable of producing about 500 megawatts of power at a cost of about $ 300 million to $ 400 million .