after failing to find a buyer for the sears tower in chicago , sears , roebuck & co. is negotiating with boston pension fund adviser aldrich , eastman & waltch inc. to refinance the property for close to $ 850 million , according to people close to the negotiations . under the proposed agreement involving the world 's tallest building , chicago-based sears would receive about half the money through conventional mortgage financing and the other half as a convertible mortgage . at the end of the term of the convertible loan , sears could still own half the building , and aew could own the other half . neither side would comment . the parties are currently negotiating over who would manage the building , which will be emptied of 6,000 employees from sears ' merchandise group , which is moving elsewhere . the new manager will face the daunting task of leasing 1.8 million square feet in a relatively soft chicago real estate market . also , it has not yet been decided exactly how much of the mortgage aew will be able to convert into equity . convertible mortgages have become an increasingly popular way 0 to finance prestigious buildings of late . in a convertible mortgage , the investor lends the building owner a certain amount in return for the option to convert its interest into equity , usually less than 50 % , at the end of the loan term . during the term , the lender can either receive a percentage of cash flow , a percentage of the building 's appreciation or a fixed return . the main advantage of a convertible mortgage is that it is not a sale and therefore does not trigger costly transfer taxes and reappraisal . sears said 0 it would put the 110-story tower on the block almost a year ago as part of its anti-takeover restructuring . but japanese institutions shied away from bidding on the high-profile tower out of fear 0 their purchase of the property would trigger anti-japanese sentiment . last summer , sears appeared to have a deal with canadian developer olympia & york developments ltd . but that deal fell through in september after it became clear that the sale would lead to a major real estate tax reassessment , raising property taxes , and making it difficult to lease the building at competitive prices . real estate industry executives said 0 sears ' investment banker , goldman , sachs & co. , sought financing in japan . however , japanese authorities apparently were concerned that a refinancing also would attract too much publicity . sears then went back to aew , the boston pension adviser that had proposed a convertible debt deal during the first round of bids last spring . aew has $ 3.5 billion of real estate investments nationwide , according to a spokesman .