british airways plc said 0 it is seeking improved terms and a sharply lower price in any revised bid for united airlines parent ual corp. following the collapse of a $ 6.79 billion , $ 300-a-share buy-out bid . derek stevens , british air 's chief financial officer , told dow jones professional investor report 0 a price of $ 230 a share is `` certainly not too low , '' and indicated 0 his company would like to reduce the size of its $ 750 million cash investment . he added 0 the airline is n't committed to going forward with any new bid , and has n't participated in bankers ' efforts to revive the transaction that collapsed . `` we 're in no way committed to a deal going through at all . we 're not rushing into anything . we do n't want to be party to a second rejection , '' he said , adding that coming up with a revised offer could easily take several weeks . mr. stevens 's remarks , confirming a report in the wall street journal that british air wants to start from scratch in any new bid for the nation 's second-largest airline , helped push ual stock lower for the fourth straight day . ual fell $ 6.25 a share to $ 191.75 on volume of 2.3 million shares in composite trading on the new york stock exchange as concern deepened among takeover stock traders about the length of time 0 it will take to revive the purchase . under the original buy-out approved by the ual board sept. 14 , ual 's pilots planned to put up $ 200 million in cash and make $ 200 million in annual cost concessions for a 75 % stake . ual management was to pay $ 15 million for 10 % , and british air was to receive a 15 % stake . the buy-out fell through when citicorp and chase manhattan corp. unexpectedly failed to obtain bank financing . since then , ual stock has fallen 33 % in what may rank as the largest collapse of a takeover stock ever . the tenor of mr. stevens 's remarks seemed to indicate that british air will take a more active , high-profile role in pursuing any new bid . he said 0 he believes 0 ual management was badly advised on the funding of its original transaction . mr. stevens said 0 british air has n't received any new buy-out proposals from the labor-management group , led by ual chairman stephen wolf , and has n't received any indication of when one might be forthcoming . `` as far as we 're concerned , we 're waiting for the dust to settle , '' he said . although british air is waiting to see what the buy-out group comes up with , mr. stevens said 0 a revised transaction with less debt leverage is likely to be more attractive to banks . he said 0 the original proposal is dead , and all aspects of a revised version are up for change , in light of the changes in ual 's market price , the amount of debt 0 banks are willing to fund , and the price 0 british air would be willing to pay . mr. stevens said 0 he expects 0 the new price will be considerably lower , but declined to specify a figure . asked whether a $ 230-a-share figure circulating in the market yesterday is too low , he said , `` it 's certainly not too low . '' he added 0 the original offer was `` a pretty full price , '' and that british air 's contribution `` was quite a large chunk for us . '' british air was originally attracted to the chance of obtaining a 15 % stake in the company , but was n't particularly happy with paying $ 750 million . `` if the -lcb- new -rcb- deal had us putting up less money but still having 15 % , that would be a point in our favor , '' he said . in any new proposal , british air would expect a greater rate of return than the 20%-plus in the original proposal . in the event that the buy-out group stalls in reviving its bid , the ual board could remain under some pressure to seek another transaction , even without any legal obligation to do so . roughly one-third of its stock is believed held by takeover stock traders , who could vote to oust the board if they become impatient . meanwhile , the buy-out group 's task of holding its fragile coalition together , in the face of the bid 's collapse and internal opposition from two other employee groups , has been further complicated by an apparent rift in the ranks of the pilot union itself . a pilot representing a group of 220 pilots hired during united 's 1985 strike filed suit friday in chicago federal court to block the takeover . the dissident pilots oppose the plan because it would cause them to lose their seniority . ual 's management agreed to reduce the seniority of those pilots in exchange for the support of the united pilot union for the buy-out proposal . the 220 pilots involved in the suit are n't members of the union . the airline had allowed them to move ahead of some union members in seniority following the 1985 strike , a move 0 the union had contested in a previous lawsuit . judith valente contributed to this article .