researchers at plant genetic systems n.v. in belgium said 0 they have developed a genetic engineering technique for creating hybrid plants for a number of key crops . the researchers said 0 they have isolated a plant gene that prevents the production of pollen . the gene thus can prevent a plant from fertilizing itself . such so-called male-sterile plants can then be fertilized by pollen from another strain of the plant , thereby producing hybrid seed . the new generation of plants will possess the flourishing , high-production trait known as `` hybrid vigor , '' similar to that now seen in hybrid corn . `` the development could have a dramatic effect on farm production , especially cotton , '' said murray robinson , president of delta & pine land co. , a southwide inc. subsidiary that is one of the largest cotton seed producers in the u.s. . on a commercial scale , the sterilization of the pollen-producing male part has only been achieved in corn and sorghum feed grains . that 's because the male part , the tassel , and the female , the ear , are some distance apart on the corn plant . in a labor-intensive process , the seed companies cut off the tassels of each plant , making it male sterile . they sow a row of male-fertile plants nearby , which then pollinate the male-sterile plants . the first hybrid corn seeds produced using this mechanical approach were introduced in the 1930s and they yielded as much as 20 % more corn than naturally pollinated plants . the vast majority of the u.s. corn crop now is grown from hybrid seeds produced by seed companies . a similar technique is almost impossible 0 to apply to other crops , such as cotton , soybeans and rice . the male part , the anthers of the plant , and the female , the pistils , of the same plant are within a fraction of an inch or even attached to each other . the anthers in these plants are difficult 0 to clip off . in china , a great number of workers are engaged in pulling out the male organs of rice plants using tweezers , and one-third of rice produced in that country is grown from hybrid seeds . at plant genetic systems , researchers have isolated a pollen-inhibiting gene that can be inserted in a plant to confer male sterility . jan leemans , research director , said 0 this gene was successfully introduced in oil-producing rapeseed plants , a major crop in europe and canada , using as a carrier a `` promoter gene '' developed by robert goldberg at the university of california in los angeles . the sterilizing gene is expressed just before the pollen is about to develop and it deactivates the anthers of every flower in the plant . mr. leemans said 0 this genetic manipulation does n't hurt the growth of that plant . the researchers also pulled off a second genetic engineering trick in order to get male-sterile plants in large enough numbers to produce a commercial hybrid seed crop . they attached a second gene , for herbicide resistance , to the pollen-inhibiting gene . both genes are then inserted into a few greenhouse plants , which are then pollinated and allowed to mature and produce seed . the laws of heredity dictate that half of the plants springing from these greenhouse-produced seeds will be male sterile and herbicide resistant and half will be male fertile and herbicide susceptible . the application of herbicide would kill off the male-fertile plants , leaving a large field of male-sterile plants that can be cross-pollinated to produce hybrid seed . mr. leemans said 0 the hybrid rapeseeds created with this genetic engineering yield 15 % to 30 % more output than the commercial strains used currently . `` this technique is applicable to a wide variety of crops , '' he said , and added that some modifications may be necessary to accommodate the peculiarities of each type of crop . he said 0 the company is experimenting with the technique on alfalfa , and plans to include cotton and corn , among other crops . he said that even though virtually all corn seeds currently planted are hybrids , the genetic approach will obviate the need for mechanical emasculation of anthers , which costs u.s. seed producers about $ 70 million annually . in recent years , demand for hybrid seeds has spurred research at a number of chemical and biotechnology companies , including monsanto co. , shell oil co. and eli lilly & co . one technique developed by some of these companies involves a chemical spray supposed to kill only a plant 's pollen . but there have been problems with chemical sprays damaging plants ' female reproductive organs and concern for the toxicity of such chemical sprays to humans , animals and beneficial insects . however , paul johanson , monsanto 's director of plant sciences , said 0 the company 's chemical spray overcomes these problems and is `` gentle on the female organ . '' biosource genetics corp. , vacaville , calif. , is developing a spray containing a gene that spreads from cell to cell and interferes with the genes that are responsible for producing pollen . this gene , called `` gametocide , '' is carried into the plant by a virus that remains active for a few days . robert erwin , president of biosource , called plant genetic 's approach `` interesting '' and `` novel , '' and `` complementary rather than competitive . '' `` there is a large market out there hungry for hybrid seeds , '' he said . mr. robinson of delta & pine , the seed producer in scott , miss. , said 0 plant genetic 's success in creating genetically engineered male steriles does n't automatically mean 0 it would be simple to create hybrids in all crops . that 's because pollination , while easy in corn because the carrier is wind , is more complex and involves insects as carriers in crops such as cotton . `` it 's one thing to say 0 you can sterilize , and another to then successfully pollinate the plant , '' he said . nevertheless , he said 0 , he is negotiating with plant genetic to acquire the technology 0 to try breeding hybrid cotton .