bond corp . holdings ltd. posted a loss for fiscal 1989 of 980.2 million australian dollars -lrb- us$ 762.4 million -rrb- , the largest in australian corporate history . that loss compared with a year-earlier profit of a$ 273.5 million . in preliminary , unaudited results reported friday , bond corp. also posted an operating loss of a$ 814.1 million for the year ended june 30 , compared with operating profit of a$ 354.7 million a year earlier . operating revenue rose 69 % to a$ 8.48 billion from a$ 5.01 billion . but the net interest bill jumped 85 % to a$ 686.7 million from a$ 371.1 million . bond corp. has interests in brewing , media and communications , natural resources and property . much of bond corp. 's losses stemmed from one-time write-downs of the value of some of bond corp. 's assets and those of its units . the results included a a$ 453.4 million write-off of future income-tax benefits and a provision for a loss of a$ 149.5 million on the sale of a stake of about 20 % in lonrho plc . however , bond corp. said 0 the tax benefits remain available and might be used later . earnings before interest and tax from brewing dived 50 % to a$ 123.8 million from a$ 247.3 million . the company said 0 the general financial performance of its u.s. brewing operations , g. heileman brewing co. , was `` disappointing , and this has been reflected in the results . '' bond corp. 's shares closed friday before news of the results at 28 australian cents a share , up one australian cent . the staggering losses cap a tumultuous year for alan bond and his flagship , bond corp . only a year ago , the chairman of bond corp. , who controls about 58 % of the company , appeared to be building a war chest to attack some big companies . now bond corp. has agreed to sell at least half its australian brewing assets . it has sold billions of dollars of other assets and has more on the block . but in a tv interview sunday mr. bond said , `` we 've taken a big loss . we 've taken it on the chin . but we 're out there and we 're going to stay in business . bond corp. signaled 0 it will focus on building its domestic and international media and communications businesses . it said 0 it will look at opportunities in brewing , property and energy resources to the extent consistent with the dominant objective of manageable debt-to-assets ratios . the result `` will ultimately be a very different group in size and structure , '' bond corp. directors said in a statement 0 . some analysts contend 0 the total writeoffs should have been much greater , and bond corp. 's auditors cited a list of several assets and deals about which there is `` uncertainty '' regarding the current value and potential impact on the firm . bond corp. said 0 the acknowledged losses mean 0 net asset backing is in the red to the tune of 53 australian cents a share , vs. positive asset backing of a$ 1.92 a share a year ago . still , the directors said , `` having fully considered all aspects of the company 's state of affairs and future cash flows , the directors confirm absolutely that the company is solvent . '' indeed , in a note to the results , directors said 0 if the `` true worth '' of some of the group 's assets were taken into account instead of using book values , the negative net asset backing a share would turn into `` a substantial positive '' one .