polaroid corp. , benefiting from staff-reduction savings , reported a strong gain in third-quarter operating results and net income of $ 29.9 million , or 40 cents a share , after preferred-stock requirements . analysts said 0 the numbers were better than expectations , partly because of strong profit margins and a positive foreign-currency translation . however , they said 0 the company 's flat revenue was a disappointment , and an indication that sales of polaroid 's new conventional film in the u.s. have been sluggish . revenue in the third quarter was $ 437.7 million , almost unchanged from $ 436.3 million a year earlier . polaroid reported operating profit before taxes and interest costs of $ 63.1 million for the third quarter , more than double the year-before $ 24 million . charges for staff cuts and other restructuring produced a net loss of $ 54.1 million , or 77 cents a share , in 1988 's third quarter . `` i 'm somewhat skeptical about the underlying demand '' for polaroid products , said 0 michael ellmann , an analyst with wertheim schroder & co . `` if you believe that a good performance next year is contingent on an acceleration of revenue , there is n't a lot here 0 to base optimism on . '' alex henderson , an analyst with prudential-bache , says 0 polaroid officials told him yesterday that u.s. sales of the company 's new conventional film product , introduced in the second quarter , have been `` disappointing '' after a promising start . sam yanes , a polaroid spokesman , said 0 `` i do n't know about disappointing , '' but added that the company has n't been able to get the product on the shelves of some mass-merchandise , discount retailers that it had hoped 0 would be carrying the product already . mr. yanes said 0 the film , one film , is currently carried at about 15,000 retail outlets , including drugstores and supermarkets . for the nine months , polaroid reported earnings of $ 98.5 million , or $ 1.27 a share . last year , the company had a nine-month loss of $ 15.1 million , or 23 cents a share . in new york stock exchange composite trading , polaroid closed at $ 47 , up $ 1.125 .