hugo's blast generates pleas for aid from south carolina small businesses . the small business administration has received more than 5,000 formal requests for disaster loans because of the hurricane . about 45 % of requests for sba relief loans , which also are available to homeowners , come from small businesses , compared with a 25 % business share after most disasters . the sba expects to make about $ 1 billion in hurricane hugo loans . the disaster fund is replenished by loan repayments . hardest hit by hugo in south carolina were small retailers tied to the tourist industry and businesses in agriculture and cultivated seafood . the state development board set up a hugo hotline to accept business-to-business help . after nbc weather man willard scott broadcast the hot-line number , it was flooded with 10,000 calls . last week , the u.s. chamber of commerce began using its national tv show to seek help , such as equipment , for business owners . local bankers and accountants help applicants fill out forms . `` it helps us , and people feel better talking to someone who 's gone through the same thing , '' an sba official says . health benefits remain a central lobbying effort , even as section 89 fades . the senate , after deleting section 89 repeal from its deficit-reduction bill , still is expected to join the house in voting to kill the law , which forces companies to provide comparable benefits to laborers and executives alike . in lobbying on other health-coverage topics , the national federation of independent business will press for legislation that would give self-employed people a 100 % tax deduction for their own health plans , up from 25 % currently . and the group will urge that the federal government pre-empt state rules on what must be covered by employers ' health insurance . small-business groups also will fight the medical-leave provision of legislation that would expand parental leaves . and they still oppose as too costly an employer-paid health insurance bill sponsored by sen. edward kennedy -lrb- d. , mass . -rrb- despite his proposal to phase in small business only gradually . there is also worry that the pepper commission studying long-term health care will again push lawmakers toward employerpaid solutions . the section 89 victory could have a downside by making it harder to oppose lawmakers on other health proposals . `` with the repeal of section 89 , we can no longer say 0 they 're discouraging businesses from offering health plans , '' says christine russell , the chamber of commerce 's small-business advocate . jumping the gun : sen. lloyd bentsen -lrb- d. , texas -rrb- was outraged after a private word to john motley , lobbyist for the national federation of independent business , resulted in a news release saying that the senate finance committee chairman would recommend repeal of section 89 . even though the announcement was true in the end , it was issued without the senator 's permission . `` i blew it , '' mr. motley says apologetically . `` it was a timing mistake . '' prison-shop blues : sen. strom thurmond -lrb- r. , s.c . -rrb- protests pending legislation to end the preference that the federal prison system gets in selling prisoner-made furniture and other goods to government agencies . small-business suppliers want prisons to stop getting high priority , especially as prison production grows with swelling inmate populations . last year , the prisons ' sales to the pentagon totaled $ 336 million . repair shops scrap for more access to work on auto-emissions systems . groups representing some independent auto-repair shops join a compromise on the clean air legislation worked out between environmentalists and rep. henry waxman -lrb- d. , calif . -rrb- . the plan would increase the warranty on auto-emission systems to eight years or 80,000 miles from five years or 50,000 for major parts . but the warranty on simpler parts would be lowered to two years or 24,000 miles . the garage owners say 0 they would benefit because car owners would be less likely to go back to dealers for the simpler repairs after two years . the repair shops are n't united , however . shops represented by the automotive service industry association and the motor equipment manufacturers association oppose any increase in warranty length . they say 0 the longer the warranty , the longer customers will automatically return to new-car dealers , which then find non-warranty work that might otherwise go to repair shops . the house energy committee will debate the issue later this month . stan hathcock , an atlanta garage owner who opposes a longer warranty , estimates that the current plan costs him as much as $ 15,000 a year in lost business . small talk : some 70 % of graduates who recently earned an m.b.a. degree say 0 they 'd prefer to work in or own a small company , yet most take jobs with large concerns , says 0 a survey by the foster mckay group , a new york recruiting firm ... . cardinal scientific inc. of waldorf , md. , seeks a small business innovation research grant 0 to produce a `` nozzle assembly for an army mass delousing outfit .