two rules in pending congressional legislation threaten to hinder leveraged buy-outs by raising the price tags of such deals by as much as 10 % . wall street is seething over the rules , which would curtail the tax deductibility of debt used in most lbos . the provisions , in deficit-reduction bills recently passed by the house and senate , could further cool the takeover boom that has been the driving force behind the bull market in stocks for much of the 1980s , some tax experts and investment bankers argue 0 . indeed , some investment bankers have already started restructuring deals to cope with the expected rules . wall street has all but conceded on the issue and is now lobbying for the less onerous senate version of one of the provisions . at issue is the deductibility of certain junk bonds that are used in most lbos . such high-yield debt is similar to a zero-coupon bond in that it is sold at a discount to face value , with interest accruing instead of being paid to the holder . under current rules , that accrued interest is deductible by the company issuing the debt . the house version of the legislation would kill that deduction , and label any such debt as equity , which is n't deductible . the less-rigorous senate version would defer the deductibility for roughly five years . `` you see these in just about every lbo , '' said robert willens , senior vice president in charge of tax issues at shearson lehman hutton inc. in new york . `` it becomes a source of cash '' for the company making the lbo because it gets a deduction and does n't have to repay the debt for several years . typically , mr. willens estimates 0 , this type of debt makes up 15 % to 20 % of the financing for lbos . these types of bonds have been used in buy-outs of companies such as rjr nabisco inc. , storer communications inc. and kroger co . a second provision passed by the senate and house would eliminate a rule allowing companies that post losses resulting from lbo debt to receive refunds of taxes paid over the previous three years . for example , if a company posted a loss of $ 100 million from buy-out interest payments , the existing rule would allow the concern to be able to receive a refund from the tax 0 it paid from 1986 through 1989 , when it may have been a profitable public company . but that rule is being virtually overlooked by wall street , which is concentrating on coping with the deduction issue . `` prices for lbos have to come down if you do n't have that feature , '' argued lawrence schloss , managing director for merchant banking at donaldson , lufkin & jenrette securities corp. in new york . several wall street officials say 0 the proposed legislation already is having an impact . an investment group led by chicago 's pritzker family recently lowered a $ 3.35 billion bid for american medical international , beverly hills , calif. , because of the threat of the legislation . moreover , one investment banker , who requested anonymity , said 0 his firm did n't raise the ante for a target company earlier this month after a stronger bid emerged from a public company that was n't concerned about the financing provision . `` we would have paid more if we thought 0 that law was n't going to pass , '' he said . one possible solution for wall street is to increase the equity part of the transaction -- that is , give lenders a bigger stake in the surviving company rather than just interest payments . that would force the buy-out firm and the target company 's management to reduce their level of ownership . `` the pigs in the trough may have to give a little bit of the slop back and then the deal can go through , '' said peter c. canellos , tax partner at wachtell , lipton , rosen & katz . another solution , said 0 a tax lawyer who requested anonymity , is for firms to use convertible bonds that sell at a discount . since they have a lower interest rate , they would n't fall under the junk-bond category that would lose its deductibility . the house version of the bill would make debt non-deductible if it pays five percentage points above treasury notes , has at least a five-year maturity and does n't pay interest for at least one year out of the first five . the bill would then declare that the debt is equity and therefore is n't deductible . the senate bill would only deny the deduction until interest is actually paid . currently , even though the issuer does n't pay tax , the debt holder is taxed on the accrued interest . but those holders are often foreign investors and tax-exempt pension funds that do n't pay taxes on their holdings . the senate estimates that its version of the provision would yield $ 17 million the first year and a total of $ 409 million over five years . the house version would raise slightly more . even if wall street finds ways around the new rules , a senate aide contends 0 lbos will become somewhat more difficult . `` there 's no question 0 it will make lbos more expensive , '' he said . `` the interest deduction was the engine that made these things more productive .