secretary of state baker , we read 0 , decided to kill a speech that robert gates , deputy national security adviser and a career soviet expert , was going to give to a student colloquium , the national collegiate security conference . we keep wondering what mr. gates wanted to say . perhaps he might have cited mr. gorbachev 's need for `` a stable currency , free and competitive markets , private property and real prices '' and other pie-in-the-sky reforms . perhaps he 'd have called for `` a decentralized political and economic system '' without a dominant communist party . or political arrangements 0 `` to alleviate the grievances and demands of soviet ethnic minorities and republics . '' why , a bob gates might even have said , `` nor are soviet problems susceptible to rescue from abroad through abundant western credits . '' if mr. gates had been allowed to say these things , we would now be hearing about `` discord '' and `` disarray '' on foreign policy . dark hints would be raised that parts of the administration hope 0 mr. gorbachev would fail , just as they were when vice president quayle voiced similar sentiments . it 's somehow ok for secretary baker himself , however , to say all the same things . in fact , he did ; the quotes above are from mr. baker 's speech of two weeks ago . so far as we can see , there is no disagreement among mr. baker , mr. quayle , the mr. gates 0 we 've read , or for that matter president bush . they all understand point one : nothing 0 the u.s. can do will make much difference in whether mr. gorbachev succeeds with perestroika . perhaps mr. gates would emphasize more than mr. baker the many hurdles 0 the soviet leader must leap if he is going to succeed . but everyone agrees that mr. gorbachev 's problems result from the failure of his own system . they can be relieved only by changing that system , not by pouring western money into it . gatt membership will not matter to donbas coal miners short of soap , nor will a start treaty make any difference to ukrainian nationalists . on the other hand , so long as mr. gorbachev is easing his grip on his empire , everyone 0 we 've heard agrees that the u.s. can benefit by engaging him . if a deal can be made 0 to cut the world 's ortegas loose from moscow , why not ? we do n't expect much good from nuclear-arms control , but conventional-arms talks might demilitarize eastern europe . there 's nothing in the least contradictory in all this , and it would be nice to think that washington could tolerate a reasonably sophisticated , complex view . yet much of the political culture seems intent on castigating the bush administration for not `` helping '' mr. gorbachev . so every time 0 a bush official raises a doubt about mr. gorbachev , the washington community shouts `` cold war '' and `` timidity , '' and an administration spokesman is quickly trotted out to reply , `` mr. bush wants perestroika to succeed . '' mr. baker seems especially sensitive to the washington ailment known as beltway-itis . its symptoms include a cold sweat at the sound of debate , clammy hands in the face of congressional criticism , and fainting spells when someone writes the word `` controversy . '' as one unidentified official clearly in the late stages of the disease told the times : `` baker just felt that there were some lines in the speech that could be misinterpreted and seized by the press . '' in short , the problem is not intra-administration disagreement , but preoccupation with the prospect that perestrokia might fail , and its political opponents will ask `` who lost gorbachev ? '' mr. baker may want to avoid criticism from senate majority leader george mitchell , but as secretary of state his audience is the entire free world , not just congress . in any case , he 's likely to find that the more he muzzles his colleagues , the more leaks will pop up all around washington , a lesson once learned by henry kissinger . letting officials express their own nuances can be educational . we note that in rome yesterday defense secretary cheney said that european euphoria over mr. gorbachev is starting to be tempered by a recognition of `` the magnitude of the problems 0 he was trying to deal with . '' it is in the western interest to see mr. gorbachev succeed . the odds are against him , as he himself would no doubt tell you . the ultimate outcome depends on what he does , not on what we do . even if the press is ready to seize and misinterpret , these are not very complicated thoughts . surely there is someone in the administration , maybe bob gates , who could explain them to college students , or even schoolchildren .