as georgia-pacific 's bid for great northern nekoosa has shown 0 , uninvited takeovers are still alive despite premature reports of their demise . therefore , the debate about poison pills will continue to rage in the boardrooms of corporations and the halls of academia . although poison pills come in different colors and shapes , they usually give current shareholders the right to buy more stock of their corporation at a large discount if certain events occur -- typically , if a hostile bidder acquires more than a specified percentage of the corporation 's stock . however , these discount purchase rights may generally be redeemed at a nominal cost by the corporation 's directors if they approve of a bidder . supporters of poison pills argue that their adoption forces bidders to negotiate with a corporation 's directors , who are thereby put in a better position 0 to pursue the long-term interests of the corporation . recent studies by georgeson & co. conclude that corporations with poison pills have experienced greater stock-price appreciation than corporations without poison pills during the past few years . critics of poison pills argue that they harm shareholders by letting corporate management defeat takeover bids at premium prices and by deterring premium bids from ever being made to shareholders . these critics are backed by several academic studies showing that the adoption of poison pills reduces shareholder values not merely in the short run , but also over longer periods . institutional investors that must evaluate poison pills on a regular basis are interested less in this general debate than in the answers to specific questions about the corporation issuing the pill . does this corporation have a high-quality management team with a good track record ? does this team have a viable strategy for improving shareholder values , and does this strategy require implementation over an extended period ? will the adoption of this particular form of a poison pill significantly improve the chances for management to carry out this strategy ? if the answers to these questions are affirmative , then institutional investors are likely to be favorably disposed toward a specific poison pill . however , the problem is that once most poison pills are adopted , they survive forever . although the current management team may be outstanding , who will be the ceo in 10 years ? although the five-year strategy may be excellent , what will be the strategy in 25 years ? the solution to this problem is a time-limited poison pill . the limit could range from three years to seven years , depending on the composition of the management team and the nature of its strategic plan . at the end of this period , the poison pill would be eliminated automatically , unless a new poison pill were approved by the then-current shareholders , who would have an opportunity to evaluate the corporation 's strategy and management team at that time . one rare example of a time-limited poison pill is the shareholder rights plan adopted by pennzoil last year after it received a huge litigation settlement from texaco . pennzoil 's poison pill covers five years in order to give current management enough time 0 to put these proceeds to work in a prudent manner . another interesting example is the poison pill adopted recently by pittsburgh-based national intergroup inc. , a diversified holding company . the state of wisconsin investment board , which owned about 7 % of the company 's voting stock , worked with management to devise a time-limited poison pill . this pill automatically expires after three years unless continued by a vote of the shareholders . the attitude of the wisconsin investment board reflects a growing receptivity to time-limited poison pills on the part of institutional investors , as shown by the discussions at recent meetings of the council of institutional investors and my informal survey of several retirement plans with large stock positions . more widespread time limits on poison pills would allow shareholders to evaluate a specific poison pill within the context of a specific management team 's strategy . such concrete analysis is likely to lead to more fruitful dialogue between management and shareholders than the abstract debate about poison pills . mr. pozen is the general counsel and a managing director of fidelity investments in boston .