ogilvy & mather , whose declining profitability prompted its takeover by wpp group earlier this year , will see its profit margins bounce back to the `` 11.5 % range '' in 1990 , said 0 graham phillips , the agency 's new chairman-elect . the ad agency 's pretax profit margins were slightly under 10 % at the time of the takeover , according to analysts ; london-based wpp 's goal is to increase margins to 12 % . mr. phillips made his comments during an interview detailing his plans for the agency . british-born , the 24-year ogilvy veteran was named last week to succeed kenneth roman , who is leaving by year 's end to take a top post at american express , an ogilvy client . surrounded by stacks of paper , two computers and photos of himself boating and flying , mr. phillips laid out several changes 0 he hopes to make at the agency . first and foremost , mr. phillips said 0 he hopes to improve client service . ogilvy under the fastidious mr. roman gained a reputation as occasionally being high-handed in its treatment of clients , of preaching what strategy a client should -- indeed , must -- follow . and some of its top client-service executives , including mr. phillips , were promoted to the point 0 they were saddled with administrative duties , with little time 0 to see clients . but mr. phillips recently freed himself up to spend more time with clients by delegating much of his administrative work to a deputy . he also plans to get to know clients that mr. roman was closer to , such as lever brothers , american express and seagram . the two men are planning joint visits to a number of clients to attempt to smoothly hand over the reins . `` clients want to see more of our senior people involved in the business -- not once a month , but two or three times a week , '' he said . mr. phillips also hopes to finally implement a reorganization announced earlier this year but put on hold by the wpp takeover . the reorganization is supposed to make one-stop shopping -- buying advertising , public relations and design all in one place , or `` ogilvy orchestration '' in ogilvyspeak -- a reality . under the reorganization , ogilvy plans to name one executive on each account as a `` client service director '' 0 to work as the client 's single contact for all those services . `` there is little or no integration of our work , quality is spotty , there is no single focus , '' mr. phillips complained to staffers in march , when the reorganization was announced . now mr. phillips says 0 he hopes to have the new system in place for several clients -- including american express , american telephone & telegraph and ryder -- by year 's end . industry executives and analysts are divided on whether mr. phillips is up to the task . he is n't as well-known to clients as is mr. roman . under his watch , office politicking was often rampant in the agency 's new york operation and the office there has had a dismal new-business record for more than a year . and while last week the agency hired a top chiat\/day\/mojo executive , bill hamilton , 0 to try to bolster its work , `` graham has to get the revenue of that new york office moving , '' says james dougherty , an analyst with county natwest securities . the one thing 0 mr. phillips clearly does have going for him is continuity , although it is n't certain if that will be enough . as mr. dougherty says , `` the last thing 0 they need is enormous disruption at the top ... and graham is obviously a long-term member of the ogilvy mafia , 0 as we call it . '' mr. phillips and mr. roman are indeed quite similar in substance , if not in style . while mr. roman is a workaholic detailsman , mr. phillips would rather delegate , leaving him time for his interests outside the office . mr. roman , by contrast , seems rarely to cut loose at all , although he did appear at ogilvy 's halloween party friday decked out in duck feet and a duck hat , costumed as a `` lame duck . '' mr. phillips said 0 the company 's expected margin improvement will be all but inevitable , given that the company 's profitability was dragged down this year by an expensive move to luxurious , oversized new new york headquarters . the move , budgeted at about $ 7 million , actually came in at about $ 10 million , he said 0 . but margins will be helped , too , by some other cost-saving steps . ogilvy eliminated the mail room staff , closed the executive dining room and , after the takeover , let go half a dozen financial executives . wpp , which assumes financial control of its businesses in a hands-on way , instituted a new financial system and plans to sublet some floors in ogilvy 's new headquarters building to outsiders . the fact that the agency will now be part of a u.k. company , under british accounting rules , will also make the profit picture look better . y&r 's klein steps down arthur klein , president of young & rubicam 's new york office , stepped down `` temporarily '' in the wake of charges by a federal grand jury in new haven , conn. , that he , the agency and another top executive bribed jamaican tourist officials to win its account in 1981 . in an internal memo , alex kroll , the agency 's chairman , said 0 mr. klein decided to remove himself to minimize `` negative reaction '' from prospective clients and others and to prepare for his defense . `` the fact that he is in the process of defending himself against the present charges could conceivably have an adverse impact on y&r , '' mr. kroll wrote . he said 0 mr. klein will return to his post at the end of the trial `` at which he will be vindicated . '' mr. klein will work with mr. kroll on some of the agency 's joint venture activities and acquisitions while the case is pending . peter georgescu , president of y&r 's ad operations , will assume mr. klein 's day-to-day role . wells rich 's new partner wells , rich , greene named cheryl heller as an executive vice president and creative partner in its image group , which concentrates on fashion and visually oriented advertising . ms. heller , 38 , had headed up boston agency heller\/breene , a unit of wcrs . the agency , with about $ 35 million in billings , will be dissolved , with some of its staffers absorbed by wcrs 's della femina mcnamee unit in boston , ms. heller said 0 . she said 0 it was too early to say what would happen to its clients , including reebok and apple . at wells rich , ms. heller will concentrate on accounts that include philip morris 's benson & hedges cigarette brand , which relies on print ads , ms. heller 's specialty . as previously reported , the account is troubled , with philip morris asking backer spielvogel bates , ogilvy & mather , and possibly others to try their hand at developing new creative work . wells rich declined to comment on the status of the account , as did the other agencies .