bank of new england corp. , seeking to streamline its business after a year of weak earnings and mounting loan problems , said 0 it will sell some operations and lay off 4 % of its work force . the bank holding company also reported that third-quarter profit dropped 41 % , to $ 42.7 million , or 61 cents a share , from the year-earlier $ 72.3 million , or $ 1.04 a share . among its restructuring measures , the company said 0 it plans to sell 53 of its 453 branch offices and to lay off 800 employees . altogether , employment is expected to decline to less than 16,000 from the current level of about 18,000 . walter connolly , chairman , said in an interview that the company expects to record pretax gains of $ 100 million to $ 125 million from the sale of its leasing operations and of certain financial processing services . in a prepared statement , the company said 0 it expects to realize those gains before year end . nonperforming assets continued to pile up in the latest quarter , rising to $ 900 million , or 3.52 % of loans and leases , from $ 667 million , or 2.68 % , at the end of the second quarter . some $ 170 million of the $ 233 million increase in nonperforming loans was related to real estate , and roughly three-quarters of that was in the troubled new england market , according to richard driscoll , vice chairman . mr. driscoll said that , despite continued weakness in the region 's real estate market , bank of new england expects the rate of increase in nonperforming assets to slow in coming quarters . mr. connolly noted that net third-quarter charge-offs , at $ 63 million , improved slightly from the $ 67 million in the second quarter . and he indicated that more substantial improvement is expected in the next couple of quarters . the company increased its loan loss reserve to $ 354 million from $ 342 million at the end of the second quarter . total assets slipped to $ 31.4 billion , from $ 32 billion as of june 30 . among other restructuring measures , the bank said 0 it will close its loan production offices in chicago , new york and philadelphia . the chicago office figured prominently in the bank 's problems earlier this year , when $ 65 million in loans to chicago businessman william stoecker went sour . in an internal memorandum to employees , messrs. connolly and driscoll described the restructuring as an effort to continue rationalizing operations assembled during a series of mergers over the past five years .