in this era of frantic competition for ad dollars , a lot of revenue-desperate magazines are getting pretty cozy with advertisers -- fawning over them in articles and offering pages of advertorial space . so can a magazine survive by downright thumbing its nose at major advertisers ? garbage magazine , billed as `` the practical journal for the environment , '' is about to find out 0 . founded by brooklyn , n.y. , publishing entrepreneur patricia poore , garbage made its debut this fall with the promise to give consumers the straight scoop on the u.s. waste crisis . the magazine combines how-to pieces on topics like backyard composting , explanatory essays on such things as what happens after you flush your toilet , and hard-hitting pieces on alleged environmental offenders . garbage editors have dumped considerable energy into a whirling rampage through supermarket aisles in a bid to identify corporate america 's good guys and bad boys . in one feature , called `` in the dumpster , '' editors point out a product 0 they deem to be a particularly bad offender . from an advertising standpoint , the problem is 0 these offenders are likely to be some of the same folks that are major magazine advertisers these days . with only two issues under its belt , garbage has alienated some would-be advertisers and raised the ire of others . campbell soup , for one , is furious 0 its souper combo microwave product was chastised in the premiere `` in the dumpster '' column . the magazine 's editors ran a giant diagram of the product with arrows pointing to the packaging 's polystyrene foam , polyproplene and polyester film -- all plastic items 0 they say 0 are non-biodegradable . `` it 's precisely the kind of product that 's created the municipal landfill monster , '' the editors wrote . `` i think that this magazine is not only called garbage , but it is practicing journalistic garbage , '' fumes a spokesman for campbell soup . he says 0 campbell was n't even contacted by the magazine for the opportunity to comment . modifications had been made to the souper combo product at the time 0 the issue was printed , he says 0 , making it less an offender than was portrayed . he admits , though , 0 it is n't one of campbell soup 's better products in terms of recyclability . campbell soup , not surprisingly , does n't have any plans to advertise in the magazine , according to its spokesman . some media experts question whether a young magazine can risk turning off madison avenue 's big spenders . `` you really need the campbell soups of the world to be interested in your magazine if you 're going to make a run of it , '' says mike white , senior vice president and media director at ddb needham , chicago . `` the economics of magazine publishing pretty much require that you have a pretty solid base '' of big-time ad spenders , he adds 0 . the first two issues featured ads from only a handful of big advertisers , including general electric and adolph coors , but the majority were from companies like waste management inc. and bumkins international , firms that do n't spend much money advertising and ca n't be relied on to support a magazine over the long haul . a waste management spokeswoman says 0 its ad in the premiere issue was a one-time purchase , and 0 it does n't have any plans to advertise in future issues . `` we do n't spend much on print advertising , '' she says . but ms. poore , the magazine 's editor and publisher , contends 0 garbage can survive , at least initially , on subscription revenues . individual copies of the magazine sell for $ 2.95 and yearly subscriptions cost $ 21 . -lrb- it is , of course , printed on recycled paper . -rrb- according to ms. poore , old-house journal corp. , her publishing company , printed and sold all 126,000 copies of the premiere issue . the first and second issues sold out on newsstands , she says 0 , and the magazine has orders for 93,000 subscriptions . asked whether potential advertisers will be scared away by the magazine 's direct policy , ms. poore replies : `` i do n't know and i do n't care . i 'm not saying 0 advertising revenue is n't important , '' she says 0 , `` but i could n't sleep at night '' if the magazine bowed to a company because they once took out an ad . ad notes ... . interpublic on tv : interpublic group said 0 its television programming operations -- which it expanded earlier this year -- agreed to supply more than 4,000 hours of original programming across europe in 1990 . it said 0 the programs , largely game shows , will be provided by its e.c. television unit along with fremantle international , a producer and distributor of game shows of which it recently bought 49 % . it said 0 that volume makes it the largest supplier of original tv programming in europe . interpublic is providing the programming in return for advertising time , which it said 0 will be valued at more than $ 75 million in 1990 and $ 150 million in 1991 . it plans to sell the ad time to its clients at a discount . new account : corestates financial corp. , philadelphia , named earle palmer brown & spiro , philadelphia , as agency of record for its $ 5 million account . the business had been handled by vansant dugdale , baltimore . at&t fax : american telephone & telegraph 's general business systems division , new york , awarded the ad account for its fax product line to ogilvy & mather , new york , a wpp group agency . billings were n't disclosed for the small account , which had been serviced at young & rubicam , new york . first campaign : enterprise rent-a-car inc. breaks its first national ad campaign this week . the st. louis firm specializes in replacement-car rentals , those provided by insurance companies for cars damaged in accidents . developed by avrett , free & ginsberg , new york , the $ 6 million campaign pitches enterprise 's consumer-driven service and its free pick-up and drop-off service . landor associates : young & rubicam said 0 it completed its acquisition of landor associates , a san francisco identity-management firm . acquisition : ketchum communications , pittsburgh , acquired braun & co. , a los angeles investor-relations and marketing-communications firm . terms were n't disclosed .