one of the more bizarre garden stories since eden has been unfolding for four years now , in the private paper-and-crayon fantasies of artist jennifer bartlett . and if she and the battery park city authority have their way , her horticulturally inept plan will soon go public as a real garden `` artwork '' in the downtown complex . south gardens , 0 as the bartlett scheme is called , will occupy the last 3.5 acres of open space at the southwest tip of manhattan . it could cost taxpayers $ 15 million to install and bpc residents $ 1 million a year to maintain . created by an artist who flaunts her ignorance of plants and gardens , south gardens , as now planned , will die from congestive garden design . ms. bartlett 's previous work , which earned her an international reputation in the non-horticultural art world , often took gardens as its nominal subject . mayhap this metaphorical connection made the bpc fine arts committee think 0 she had a literal green thumb . -lrb- ms. bartlett would not discuss her garden for this article . -rrb- last year she boasted to hg magazine : `` i 'd never looked at a garden in my life . '' and she proved no shirking violet in her initial statement to the bpca , a new york state public benefit corporation : `` the only thing 0 i was interested in doing was a very complicated garden , which would cost an enormous amount of money and be very expensive 0 to maintain . '' undeterred , the bpca hired ms. bartlett and another confessed garden ignoramus , the architect alexander cooper , who claimed 0 he had never visited , much less built , a garden , and said of the project , `` i do n't view this as a landscape . i view this as a building . '' the third principal in the south gardens adventure did have garden experience . the firm of bruce kelly\/david varnell landscape architects had created central park 's strawberry fields and shakespeare garden . the bpca called its team a `` stunning '' collaboration . after four years , though , the south gardens design is 100 % uncollaborated jennifer bartlett . she has done little more than recycle her standard motifs -- trees , water , landscape fragments , rudimentary square houses , circles , triangles , rectangles -- and fit them into a grid , as if she were making one of her gridded two-dimensional works for a gallery wall . but for south gardens , the grid was to be a 3-d network of masonry or hedge walls with real plants inside them . in a letter to the bpca , kelly\/varnell called this `` arbitrary and amateurish . '' the landscape architects were expelled from the garden in july . all the while , ms. bartlett had been busy at her assignment , serene in her sense of self-tilth . as she put it in a 1987 lecture at the harvard graduate school of design : `` i have designed a garden , not knowing the difference between a rhododendron and a tulip . '' moreover , she proclaimed that `` landscape architects have been going wrong for the last 20 years '' in the design of open space . and she further stunned her listeners by revealing her secret garden design method : commissioning a friend to spend `` five or six thousand dollars ... on books that i ultimately cut up . '' after that , the layout had been easy . `` i 've always relied heavily on the grid and found it never to fail . '' ms. bartlett told her audience that she absolutely did not believe in compromise or in giving in to the client `` because i do n't think 0 you can do watered-down versions of things . '' -lrb- this was never a problem with south gardens , because the client had long since given in to ms. bartlett 's every whim . -rrb- last year the public was afforded a preview of ms. bartlett 's creation in a tablemodel version , at a bpc exhibition . the labels were breathy : `` within its sheltering walls is a microcosm of a thousand years in garden design ... a rose garden , herb garden , serpentine garden , flower fields , an apple orchard ... organized in a patchwork of 50-by-50-foot squares to form ` rooms ' ... here and there are simple architectural forms , a whimsical jet of water , a conceit of topiary or tartan plaid , and chairs of every sort 0 to drag around ... . at the core of it all is a love for plants . '' plant lovers who studied the maquette were alarmed . they looked at the miniature and saw a giant folly . ms. bartlett 's little rooms left little room for plants or people . kelly\/varnell had put south gardens ' carrying capacity at four people per room , or about 100 humans overall . this mincemeat of tiny gridlocked squares was inspired by the artist 's own digs : `` my loft was 50 by 100 feet , so 50 feet by 50 feet seemed like a good garden room . '' inside the grid were 24 of these plant cells jammed full of clutter . one she made into a topiary rec room , replete with plants shaped into a barcalounger , tv , piano and chairs . in another , she requisitioned topiary mx missile cones -- costing $ 10,000 each -- in heights up to 20 feet . another she stuffed with eight `` rectilinear hedges '' for a topiary geometry lesson in the right-angling of plants . in the herbal lounge she specified a `` plaid knot garden '' decor . she ordered the foyer done in a different plaid planting , and made the landscape architects study a book on tartans . in one garden roomette she implanted a 43-foot square glass cube meant to show off a plaid tile floor conceit , a `` zinc sink , '' a `` huge fishbowl with carp '' and a `` birdcage with cockatoos . '' next door she put a smaller plaid-floored glass house , where , she suggested 0 , a flat of strawberries might be displayed in the dead of winter . in another compartment called the linden bosque , 62 linden trees were to be crowded together at killing intervals of 10 or 16 feet . -lrb- lindens need about 36 feet . -rrb- one thing about the bartlett plan was never in doubt : it would demand the full-time skills of a battalion of topiary barbers , rosarians , orchardists and arborists . ms. bartlett blithely suggested calling upon `` semi-skilled garden club workers for maintenance . '' furthermore , she had insisted on paths so narrow -lrb- five to eight feet -rrb- and hedge corners so square that standard maintenance equipment -- trucks or cherry pickers -- could n't maneuver . then , to make these gardenettes quite literally rooms , ms. bartlett had thrown up windowless walls -lrb- brick , lattice , hedge -rrb- eight to 10 feet tall , casting her interiors into day-long stygian shade . it was hard to see how photosynthesis would ever happen in south gardens without decking the walls in a christmas-like array of gro-lites . finally , flouting the bpca 's wishes to continue the popular two-mile riverside esplanade , prized for its expansive views of new york harbor , the statue of liberty and ellis island , ms. bartlett threw up yet another wall , this time concrete , this time 10 1\/2 feet tall . she ran it the length of the south gardens riverfront , blotting out the city 's great natural water features , the harbor and the river . -lrb- within her garden , she has decreed a waterfall , a rill , ponds and other costly , trivial waterworks beside the hudson . -rrb- while the model was still on view , manhattan community board 1 passed a resolution against south gardens . the parks council wrote the bpca that this `` too ` private ' ... exclusive , '' complex and expensive `` enclosed garden ... belongs in almost any location but the waterfront . '' lynden b. miller , the noted public garden designer who restored central park 's conservatory garden , recalls her reaction to the south gardens model in light of the public garden 0 she was designing for 42nd street 's bryant park : `` bryant park , as designed in 1933 , failed as a public space , because it made people feel trapped . by removing the hedges and some walls , the bryant park restoration is opening it up . it seems to me 0 the bpca plan has the potential of making south gardens a horticultural jail for people and plants . '' the three urban horticulture experts with cornell cooperative extension weighed in with a letter to the bpca that began : `` we feel that the garden is horticulturally doomed . '' they then addressed the decidedly `` questionable safety of ... a complex garden of endless hiding places . the 8 ft. hedges which obstruct views in and out of small ` rooms ' insure ... that this garden will be a potential breeding ground for crime . '' -lrb- at harvard , ms. bartlett had declared : `` there are going to be problems with safety ... i 'm not going to address questions of safety ! '' -rrb- despite the dire assessments of knowledgeable garden professionals , ms. bartlett 's south gardens design somehow continues on , seemingly impervious to reason , stalled only by bureaucratic lethargy and logistical complications . bpca president and ceo david emil hopes to negotiate a seawall that could `` be significantly more visually permeable . '' and by substituting yet another landscape architect , nicholas quennell , he insists 0 he can achieve that and other accommodations to gardening reality while still preserving the `` artistic vision '' of a `` truly great artist . '' after four years of no progress in this direction , it is doubtful 0 any viable collaboration with ms. bartlett will suddenly now be possible . -lrb- mr. quennell has said 0 he plans to go with the grid , regardless . -rrb- there is still time , however , 0 for gov. mario cuomo or fabian palomino , chairman of the bpca board , to prevent this topiary `` tilted arc . '' these statesmen might take counsel from william robinson , author of `` the english flower garden '' -- the gardener 's bible since 1883 -- who seems to have had a jennifer bartlett in mind when he wrote : `` unhappily , our gardeners for ages have suffered at the hands of the decorative artist when applying his ` designs ' to the garden ... . it is this adapting of absurd ` knots ' and patterns from old books to any surface where a flower garden has to be made that leads to bad and frivolous design -- wrong in plan and hopeless for the life of plants .