east germany's krenz warned against further pro-democracy protests . after the legislature confirmed him as the communist party leader , krenz said 0 demonstrations to demand democratic freedoms could cause a `` worsening of the situation , or confrontation . '' he also reaffirmed east germany 's allegiance to communist orthodoxy . but as many as 12,000 people marched in east berlin after the speech to protest his election . during the balloting , 26 members of the 500-seat parliament voted against krenz , a move considered unprecedented in the country 's 40-year history . officials in east berlin , responding to complaints from opposition groups , admitted 0 police used excessive force in dispersing protesters this month . the iran-contra judge agreed to allow poindexter to subpoena the personal papers of ex-president reagan , ruling that there was sufficient evidence that the data would be important to the defense . but the judge denied a request by the former national security adviser , who faces five criminal charges , to seek documents from bush . san francisco bay area officials said 0 nine people remain missing in the aftermath of last week 's earthquake . the death toll rose to 63 . the house , meanwhile , approved $ 2.85 billion 0 to aid in the recovery from the temblor and from hurricane hugo as state legislators moved toward a temporary sales-tax increase . u.s. officials expressed skepticism over an israeli effort to show 0 the plo continues to practice terrorism . israel provided the state department with a list of recent alleged terrorist incidents attributed to forces controlled by arafat , but the u.s. said 0 it was n't satisfied that the incidents constituted terrorism . tv evangelist jim bakker was sentenced to 45 years in prison and fined $ 500,000 for defrauding followers of his ptl ministry . bakker , who was immediately taken into custody , was convicted oct. 5 by a federal court jury in charlotte , n.c. , of fraud and conspiracy for diverting more than $ 3.7 million of ministry funds for personal use . lawmakers in moscow voted to deny the communist party its 100 guaranteed seats in the soviet congress , meaning 0 gorbachev and other aides might have to face voters . in warsaw , shevardnadze held his first talks with the solidarity-led government and vowed to maintain fuel supplies . poland 's premier is to visit moscow next month . the arab league pledged an accord for a complete syrian troop pullout from lebanon , where about 70,000 people marched to the headquarters of christian leader aoun to support his rejection of a peace plan approved sunday by lebanon 's legislature . the plan lacked a withdrawal timetable . pro-iranian kidnappers renewed an offer to trade their captives in lebanon for at least 15 shiite moslem comrades jailed in kuwait . the statement by islamic jihad , which holds at least two u.s. hostages , was accompanied by a photograph of associated press correspondent terry anderson , longest held of 18 western hostages . the treasury department said 0 s&ls reject blacks for mortgage loans twice as often as they reject whites . the department 's office of thrift supervision said 0 that does n't necessarily mean 0 thrifts are biased , but conceded that it does n't have data about applicants 0 to determine why blacks are rejected more often . emergency crews searched through the charred rubble of a phillips petroleum co. plastics plant near pasadena , texas , where a series of explosions monday killed at least two people and injured 124 . company officials said 0 22 workers were missing and presumed dead . safety authorities did n't immediately know the cause of the blasts . nato defense ministers opened a two-day meeting in portugal 0 to assess the alliance 's nuclear-weapons needs amid reduced east-west tensions . the ministers ordered a study on the strategic role of nuclear arms in western europe once soviet conventional weapons are reduced in the east bloc . the justice department scrambled to play down the significance of revised guidelines concerning prosecutions under the federal racketeering law . the guidelines , which discourage prosecutors from seeking court orders seizing the assets of certain racketeering defendants prior to trial , were first disclosed this week . died : s. clark beise , 91 , ex-president and chief executive officer of bank of america nt&sa , saturday , in hillsboro , calif .