colgate palmolive co. reported 0 third-quarter net income rose 27 % , bolstered by strong sales in its latin american business and surprisingly healthy profits from u.s. operations . colgate said 0 net income for the quarter rose to $ 76.7 million , or $ 1.06 a share , on sales that increased 6 % to $ 1.3 billion . in the year-earlier period , colgate posted net income of $ 60.2 million , or 88 cents a share . last year 's results included earnings from discontinued operations of $ 13.1 million , or 19 cents a share . reuben mark , chairman and chief executive officer of colgate , said 0 earnings growth was fueled by strong sales in latin america , the far east and europe . results were also bolstered by `` a very meaningful increase in operating profit at colgate 's u.s. business , '' he said . operating profit at colgate 's u.s. household products and personal care businesses , which include such well-known brands as colgate toothpaste and fab laundry detergent , jumped more than 40 % , the company said 0 . mr. mark attributed the improvement to cost savings achieved by consolidating manufacturing operations , blending together two sales organizations and more carefully focusing the company 's promotional activities . `` we 've done a lot to improve -lrb- u.s. . -rrb- results and a lot more will be done , '' mr. mark said . `` improving profitability of u.s. operations is an extremely high priority in the company . '' colgate 's results were at the high end of the range of analysts ' forecasts . the scope of the improvement in the u.s. business caught some analysts by surprise . the company 's domestic business , especially its household products division , has performed poorly for years . analysts say 0 the earnings improvement came from cutting costs rather than increasing sales . for the nine months , net increased 14 % to $ 217.5 million , or $ 3.09 a share . sales rose 7 % to $ 3.8 billion . the company earned $ 191.1 million , or $ 2.79 a share , in the year-earlier period . colgate 's 1988 net income included $ 40.1 million , or 59 cents a share , from discontinued operations . colgate sold its hospital supply and home health care business last year . separately , colgate wednesday finalized an agreement with macrochem corp. , a tiny dental products and pharmaceutical concern based in billerica , mass. , to market in the u.s. four of macrochem 's fda-approved dental products . the products -- sealants and bonding materials used by dentists -- all contain fluoride that is released over time . the move is part of a drive 0 to increase colgate 's business with dentists , a company spokeswoman said 0 . terms of the agreement were n't given .