october was an edgy month for the practitioners of glasnost , the official soviet policy of allowing more candor from the nation 's media . for one of the superstars of glasnost , vitaly korotich , editor of the trail-blazing weekly ogonyok , friday , oct. 20 was a somersaulting day that turned from tension to elation . he had been summoned to the central committee of the soviet communist party , after he finished his lunch at the savoy hotel , an unlikely prelude to a bureaucratic brow-beating : eight-foot-tall rubenesquely naked ladies float on their canvases toward a ceiling teeming with cherubs , all surrounded by gilt laid on with a pastry chef 's trowel and supported by marble corinthian columns whose capitals are fluting fountains of gold . why had mr. korotich been called ? `` i told my driver , '' he said , `` that he was taking my butt to the central committee so they can ... '' whack , whack , whack his hand made vigorous spanking gestures on his left palm . `` they feel the need from time to time to ` educate ' me . '' and indeed , as he later reported , that was the import of the meeting . anxious allies of president mikhail gorbachev are cautioning media leaders to take it easy , to be careful not to do anything that could be used by mr. gorbachev 's opponents . the government is nervous . according to mr. korotich , who was present , mr. gorbachev 's publicized tongue-lashing of the press on oct. 13 was more of a plea : `` be careful boys ; use good judgment . we 're standing in gasoline , so do n't smoke ! '' u.s. and northern european diplomats confirm mr. korotich 's assessment that glasnost is in no immediate danger . in fact , a very high-ranking soviet official told an american official at a diplomatic dinner that no change in the policy was contemplated . the day after that conversation at the residence of the u.s. ambassador , the brezhnevite editor of pravda , victor afnasjev , was replaced by a college classmate of mr. gorbachev 's . brezhnevite holdovers have more 0 to fear from mr. gorbachev than the verbal spanking 0 he gave to the press . at the end of the very week in which mr. korotich was called to the central committee , ogonyok was again demonstrating its independence by printing a poll that showed that 35 % of the soviet population , a plurality , believed that mr. gorbachev 's economic reforms , perestroika , would result in only insignificant change . a good measurement of the popularity of ice-breaker journals like ogonyok is circulation . when mr. korotich took it over in 1986 , it sold 250,000 copies ; today it sells 3.4 million . pravda , meanwhile , has retained only 57 % of its 1986 readership . glasnost has made celebrities of men like mr. korotich . prevented by the communist party from getting on its slate of nominees for the new supreme soviet , he stood as an independent candidate for congress from his native ukraine and won with 84 % of the vote . the same evening that he was summoned for a warning from the party , he was cheered by thousands of his supporters at a rally of what can only be called the korotich party . but as astounding as the changes that have already occurred are , there is a fragility to glasnost . censorship is n't a marxist invention . the czars were no civil libertarians . as late as the 1890s , the russian government prevented any coverage of famines . it even directed newspapers not to publish anything that might stain the honor of the turkish sultan 's wives . so glasnost is not a value woven with steel threads into the fabric of russian society . it is an admirable public relations program initiated by a single political leader during a four-year blink of history . it is public relations of the highest sophistication , that recognizes that credibility is enhanced by honesty -- up to a point . what is that point ? will ogonyok begin a series of reports analyzing the failures of perestroika ? `` i 'd be destroying myself , '' replies mr. korotich , who then asks , `` what would that accomplish ? '' his answer reveals his vulnerability -- it also draws the line that soviet society must cross to enter the normal dialogue of western culture . it is the line beyond which the press can report not only on the bankruptcy of factories but on the failures of even admirable leaders . mr. ayers is editor and publisher of the anniston , ala. , star .