stock of united airlines parent ual corp. gyrated wildly yesterday amid speculation that one or more investors may challenge the ual board 's decision to remain independent instead of pursuing a buy-out or other transaction . the board 's decision , announced after the market closed monday , initially prompted a severe sell-off in ual shares , which at midday traded as low as $ 145 a share , down $ 33 a share , in composite trading on the new york stock exchange . the deepening bloodbath for takeover-stock traders , who by then had seen ual stock tumble 49 % since oct. 12 , also triggered a marketwide sell-off that sent the dow jones industrial average down more than 80 points at 10:40 a.m . but then steady , concentrated buying by bear , stearns & co. , which frequently buys stock for corporate raiders , took hold and steadied the fall in ual , which eventually buoyed the entire market . the industrial average closed down only 3.69 points at 2659.22 . late in the afternoon , several big purchases by bear , stearns , particularly a block of 200,000 shares at 2:43 p.m. at $ 150 a share , triggered a buying spree that took ual up more than 18 points in the final hour of trading . ual stock closed at $ 170 a share , down $ 8.375 . volume was a tumultuous 4.9 million shares , or 22 % of the 21.8 million ual shares outstanding . traders estimated that bear , stearns bought more than 1 million shares . the two most frequently rumored buyers , neither of whom would comment , were coniston partners , which battled the ual board in 1987 , and new york real estate developer donald trump , who recently made and withdrew an offer for american airlines parent amr corp . however , one person familiar with ual said 0 the signs pointed to coniston because mr. trump has n't asked for permission to buy more than $ 15 million of stock under federal antitrust rules . takeover-stock traders , stung by their huge losses in ual stock , remained eager for some action by an outside catalyst following the collapse oct. 13 of a $ 300-a-share , $ 6.79 billion labor-management buy-out . their hope was that the catalyst would seek to oust the board in a solicitation of shareholder consents . baker , nye investments , a new york takeover-stock trader that owns ual stock , would n't comment on reports 0 the firm is considering seeking such a shareholder vote . but partner richard nye said , `` this is the most extraordinary failed transaction 0 i 've seen in 25 years in this business . it would make sense for somebody to do it . i have never seen a case of incompetence shared by so many participants . '' in 1986 , baker , nye waged a proxy fight for control of leaseway transportation inc. that ultimately led to leaseway 's being sold . some traders pointed hopefully to earlier estimates by ual 's investment adviser , first boston corp. , that recapitalizations could yield $ 245 to $ 280 a share . but those would require pilots ' cooperation . any investor who acquires ual stock in an attempt to force a buy-out or recapitalization must deal with united 's contentious unions . the pilots are working under an expired contract , and the machinists contract expires next month . that gives them enormous leverage , including the threat of a strike 0 to block any buy-out or recapitalization attempt 0 they oppose . however , a catalyst like coniston could seek shareholder support for a sale to a labor-management group at the last price discussed by that group before the board meeting monday . the pilots had been working on a buy-out bid between $ 225 and $ 240 a share , or $ 5.09 billion to $ 5.42 billion . one person familiar with ual said 0 the unsettled labor situation and the uncertain world-wide financial markets contributed to the board 's decision to avoid `` rushing around selling the company at a bargain price , '' particularly since it accepted a $ 300-a-share offer just last month . even some takeover-stock traders said 0 they could n't quarrel with the board 's logic . but the board 's decision prompted many to bail out of the stock yesterday . `` we had a lot of people who threw in the towel today , '' said earl ellis , a partner in benjamin jacobson & sons , a specialist in trading ual stock on the big board . another trader noted that many arbitrage firms are afraid to sell their ual stock at the bottom , but already own so much 0 they ca n't buy any more . `` this deal is like a roach motel , '' he said . `` they check in , but they ca n't check out . '' but both the traders and the pilots remain interested in some transaction . so too , according to many reports , is british airways plc , despite its public withdrawal from the buy-out . the pilots might end up teaming up with their longtime adversaries , the machinists union , in a recapitalization . the machinists are reviewing proposals 0 they made in the past for recapitalizations that would pay a special shareholder dividend and give employees a minority stake . the company rejected those past proposals . it is unclear , however , if the machinists would support a majority stake , as the pilots want . a machinist official said 0 that would depend on how much in concessions machinists would have to give in return for the majority stake . some investors whose names were bandied about by traders as potential ual stock buyers said 0 they were n't buying . `` i 'm not interested , '' said dallas investor harold simmons . a source close to carl icahn , a corporate raider who owns trans world airlines inc. , said 0 he has n't owned any ual stock and is n't buying . one person familiar with texas billionaire robert bass said 0 he is n't likely to make any hostile moves . and a spokesman for reliance group holdings inc. , which had held 7 % of ual before the first buy-out bid but later reduced its holdings below 5 % , would n't comment . marvin davis , whose $ 5.4 billion takeover bid originally put the nation 's second-largest airline in play , is limited by a standstill agreement with ual 0 he signed in september . the los angeles investor ca n't buy ual stock , solicit shareholder consents or make a new offer unless he makes a formal offer of $ 300 a share or ual accepts an offer below $ 300 . however , mr. davis could pressure the board by asking that the agreement be waived , or letting it be known that he has financing for an offer at a lower price .