for the moment , at least , euphoria has replaced anxiety on wall street . the dow jones industrial average jumped sharply yesterday to close at 2657.38 , panic did n't sweep the world 's markets , and investors large and small seemed to accept friday 's dizzying 190-point plunge as a sharp correction , not a calamity . many went bargain-hunting . among those sighing with relief was john h. gutfreund , chairman of salomon brothers , who took to the firm 's trading floor to monitor yesterday 's events . as the rally gained strength at 3:15 p.m. , he smiled broadly , brandished his unlit cigar and slapped stanley shopkorn , his top stock trader , on the back . at first , it seemed as if history might repeat itself . as trading opened yesterday morning on the big board , stocks of many of the nation 's biggest companies could n't open for trading because a wave of sell orders was overwhelming buyers . by 10:10 , the dow industrials were off 63.52 points , and the stock of ual corp. , whose troubles had kicked off friday 's plunge , still had n't opened . but then , as quickly as the dow had fallen , it began to turn around . it ended with a gain of 88.12 points . by the market 's close , volume on the new york exchange totaled more than 416 million , the fourth highest on record . the big board handled the huge volume without any obvious strain , in sharp contrast to black monday of 1987 . but the rally was largely confined to the blue-chip stocks , which had been hard hit during friday 's selling frenzy . overall , more big board stocks lost money than gained . and many arbitragers , already reeling from friday 's collapse of the ual deal , were further hurt yesterday when a proposed takeover of amr corp. , the parent of american airlines , collapsed . indeed , the dow jones transportation average plunged 102.06 points , its second-worst drop in history . world-wide , trading was generally manageable . the frankfurt stock exchange was hardest hit of the major markets , with blue chips there falling 12.8 % . in london , a midday rally left the market 's major index off 3.2 % , and tokyo 's leading stock index fell only 1.8 % in surprisingly lackluster trading . other , more thinly traded asian markets were hit harder than tokyo 's , but there were no free-fall declines . investors big and small say 0 they learned valuable lessons since the 1987 crash : in this age of computerized trading , huge corrections or runups in a few hours ' time must be expected . what 's more , such short-term cataclysms are survivable and are no cause for panic selling . stephen boesel , a major money manager for t. rowe price in baltimore , says , `` there was less panic than in 1987 : we had been through it once . '' in somerset , wis. , adrian sween , who owns a supplier of nursing-home equipment and is n't active in the stock market , agrees . `` i look at it as a ho-hum matter , '' he says . many other factors played a part in yesterday 's comeback . the federal reserve signaled its willingness to provide liquidity ; the interest rate on its loans to major banks inched downward early in the day . foreign stock markets , which kicked off black monday with a huge selling spree , began the day off by relatively modest amounts . the dollar , after falling sharply in overnight trading to 139.10 yen , bounced back strongly to 141.8 , thus easing fears that foreigners would unload u.s. stocks . and the widely disseminated opinion among most market experts that a crash was n't in store also helped calm investors . many major institutions , for example , came into work yesterday ready to buy some of the blue chips 0 they felt 0 had been sharply undervalued on friday . still , amid all the backslapping and signs of relief over yesterday 's events , some market professionals cautioned that there is nothing present in the current market system 0 to prevent another dizzying drop such as friday 's . `` there is too much complacency , '' says money manager barry schrager . computers have increasingly connected securities markets world-wide , so that a buying or selling wave in one market is often passed around the globe . so investors everywhere nervously eyed yesterday 's opening in tokyo , where the nikkei average of 225 blue-chip stocks got off to a rocky start . the average plunged some 600 points , or 1.7 % , in the first 20 minutes of trading . but the selling wave had no conviction , and the market first surged upward by 200 points , then drifted lower , closing down 647 . unlike two years ago , most of japan 's major investors chose to sit this calamity out . in merrill lynch & co. 's tokyo trading room , some 40 traders and assistants sat quietly , with few orders to process . clients `` are all staying out '' of the market , one merrill trader says 0 . the relative calm in tokyo proved little comfort to markets opening up in europe . frankfurt 's opening was delayed a half hour because of a crush of sell orders . `` the beginning was chaotic , '' says nigel longley , a broker for commerzbank in london , the view from the trading floor of an american securities firm , jefferies & co. , also was troubling . a computer screen displaying 100 blue-chip stocks colors each one red when its price is falling . the screen was a sea of red . `` i see concern , but i do n't see panic , '' says j. francis palamara , a new yorker who runs the 15-trader office . london 's blue-chip stock index turned up just before 8 a.m . new york time , sending an encouraging message to wall street . when trading opened in new york at 9:30 a.m. edt , stocks fell sharply -- as expected . futures markets in chicago had opened at a level suggesting 0 the dow would fall by about 60 points . with sell orders piled up from friday , about half the stocks in the dow could n't open on time . by 9:45 , the industrial average had dropped 27 points . by 10 a.m. , it was down 49 . ten minutes later , the dow hit bottom - down 63.52 points , another 2.5 % . but shortly before then , some of wall street 's sharpest traders say , 0 they sensed a turn . `` the first thing that caught my eye that was encouraging was 0 treasury bonds were off , '' says austin george , head of stock trading at t. rowe price . `` it meant that people were n't running pell-mell to the safety of bonds . '' shortly after 10 a.m. , the major market index , a chicago board of trade futures contract of 20 stocks designed to mimic the djia , exploded upward . stock traders were buoyed -- because an upturn in the mmi had also started the recovery in stocks on the tuesday following black monday . `` the mmi has gone better , '' shouted a trader in the london office of shearson lehman hutton . shearson 's london trading room went wild . traders shouted out as their reuters , quotron and telerate screens posted an ever-narrowing loss on wall street . then , nine minutes later , wall street suddenly rebounded to a gain on the day . `` rally , rally , rally , '' shouted shearson 's andy rosen . `` this is panic buying . '' major blue-chip stocks like philip morris , general motors and proctor & gamble led the rally . japanese were said to be heavy buyers . german and dutch investors reportedly loaded up on kellogg co . then , traders say 0 , corporations with share buy-back programs kicked into high gear , triggering gains in , among other issues , alcan aluminium and mcdonald 's . walt disney co. , which had one of the biggest sell-order imbalances on friday and was one of seven stocks that halted trading and never reopened that day , opened yesterday late at 114.5 , down 8.5 . but then it suddenly burst upward 7.5 as goldman , sachs & co. stepped in and bought almost every share offer , traders said 0 . by 10:25 , the dow had turned up for the day , prompting cheers on trading desks and exchange floors . among big board specialists , the cry was `` pull your offers '' -- meaning that specialists soon expected to get higher prices for their shares . `` it was bedlam on the upside , '' said one big board specialist . `` what we had was a real , old-fashioned rally . '' this technical strength spurred buying from wall street 's `` black boxes , '' computer programs designed to trigger large stock purchases during bullish periods . typical , perhaps , was batterymarch 's dean lebaron . mr. lebaron , who manages $ 10 billion , says , `` we turned the trading system on , and it did whatever it was programmed to do . '' asked what stocks the computer bought , the money manager says , `` i do n't know . '' not everybody was making money . the carnage on the chicago board options exchange , the nation 's major options market , was heavy after the trading in s&p 100 stock-index options was halted friday . many market makers in the s&p 100 index options contract had bullish positions friday , and when the shutdown came they were frozen with huge losses . over the weekend , clearing firms told the chicago market makers to get out of their positions at any cost monday morning . `` they were absolutely killed , slaughtered , '' said one chicago-based options trader . meanwhile , a test of the stock market 's rally came at about 2 p.m. , with the dow at 2600 , up 31 points on the day . charles clough , a strategist at merrill lynch , says 0 bargain hunting had explained the dow 's strength up to that point and that many market professionals were anticipating a drop in the dow . moreover , the announcement that real estate magnate and sometime raider donald trump was withdrawing his offer for amr corp. might have been expected to rattle traders . instead , the rally only paused for about 25 minutes and then steamed forward as institutions resumed buying . the market closed minutes after reaching its high for the day of across the country , many people took yesterday 's events in stride , while remaining generally uneasy about the stock market in general . says james norman , the mayor of ava , mo. : `` i do n't invest in stocks . i much prefer money 0 i can put my hands on . '' while mayor norman found the market 's performance monday reassuring , he says 0 , he remains uneasy . `` we have half the experts saying one thing and half the other '' about the course of the economy . ralph holzfaster , a farmer and farm-supply store operator in ogallala , neb. , says of the last few days events , `` if anything good comes out of this , it might be that it puts some of these lbos on the skids . '' says gordon fines , a money manager at ids financial services in minneapolis , `` you 're on a roller coaster , and that may last . the public is still cautious .