copper futures sold off sharply yesterday , influenced by declines in the stock market and dollar , and a rally in bonds . december copper opened near monday 's close , tried to rally but failed , and then triggered stop-loss orders on its way down to settle at $ 1.1510 a pound , off 4.50 cents for the day . stop-loss orders are placed previously with instructions to execute them if the market hits a predetermined price . william kaiser , president of the kaiser financial group in chicago , said 0 the decline was almost certainly influenced by the early sell-off in the stock market , which partly reflected a weakening economy . he said 0 the recent decline in copper stocks was misleading in the face of a slowdown in manufacturing . mr. kaiser said 0 traders could have picked up signals of an imminent price decline had they been watching the scrap metal markets , which became noticeably weaker two to three weeks ago . but though a weakening economy implies reduced demand , mr. kaiser said that third world copper-producing countries have n't any choice but to sell copper . they might even step up sales in a falling market , he said 0 , in an effort to maintain the flow of foreign exchange into their treasuries . technically , mr. kaiser noted that a lot of traders had bought into the market when the price was in the $ 1.24 to $ 1.26 range , thinking 0 there was support at the $ 1.20 level . when the market fell below that level on monday and then yesterday could n't climb above that level , traders started selling out their positions . betty raptopoulos , senior metals analyst at prudential-bache securities in new york , agreed that most of the selling was of a technical nature . she said 0 the market hit the $ 1.18 level at around 10 a.m. edt where it encountered a large number of stop-loss orders . more stop-loss orders were touched off all the way down to below $ 1.14 , where modest buying was attracted . ms. raptopoulos said 0 the settling of strikes in canada and mexico will have little effect on supplies of copper until early next year . she thinks 0 the next area of support for copper is in the $ 1.09 to $ 1.10 range . `` i believe that as soon as the selling abates somewhat we could see a rally back to the $ 1.20 region , '' she added . she thinks 0 a recovery in the stock market would help copper rebound as well . she noted that the preliminary estimate of the third-quarter gross national product is due out tomorrow and is expected to be up about 2.5 % to 3 % . `` if the number is a little better , then copper will respond positively , if it is worse then more selling could ensue , '' she predicted . ms. raptopoulos noted that relating economic numbers to specific market activity is tricky . yesterday , for example , `` the durable goods numbers came out for september and the number was down only 0.1 % , '' she said . `` however , if you exclude defense-related orders then durable goods were down 3.9 % . i believe 0 that number reflects a slowing economy . '' she said 0 copper traders will also be looking toward the release of the index of leading economic indicators next tuesday . however , david threlkeld , president of threlkeld & co. , an international metals company , noted that so far this year copper consumption is way ahead of the same period of 1988 , and that projected production is below last year . mr. threlkeld said 0 the copper market seems to be anticipating a recession in three months , with declining use being the result . `` but , '' he added , `` we have had that exact same perception six times in the last six years . '' he noted that currently the ratio of available copper to consumption is about 3.5 weeks . he said 0 the normal ratio is five to six weeks . according to mr. threlkeld , the bottleneck in copper production is n't at the mines but at the copper refineries . `` it takes three months to turn copper concentrate into cathodes , '' he said . if there is n't a recession , he said 0 , `` we will be out of copper by the end of march . if there is a recession that will change the statistical situation . '' he thinks that without a recession copper prices could exceed a high of $ 1.65 a pound , which was reached last year . in the past mr. threlkeld has been known to have substantial long positions that is , he had bought copper futures in anticipation of rising prices -- in the copper futures market . in other commodity markets yesterday : energy : the attitude was `` wait-and-see '' in crude oil futures yesterday in trading on the new york mercantile exchange . prices for the u.s. benchmark west texas intermediate crude remained locked in a fairly narrow range before ending the session four cents lower at $ 19.72 a barrel for december delivery . several analysts and brokers said 0 the petroleum market was ready to rally after two days of price declines from profit-taking . but an early 80-point drop in the dow jones industrial average stopped the crude rally cold . the industrial average recovered to close only 3.69 points lower , but petroleum futures never shook off the chill . most market participants said 0 they were looking to this week 's inventory statistics from the american petroleum institute to give the market some direction . the report is n't generally available until late on tuesdays . precious metals : futures prices inched upward in mostly lackluster trading . december gold was up $ 3.20 an ounce at $ 373.40 ; december silver gained 5.7 cents to $ 5.1950 an ounce . january platinum rose $ 2.30 an ounce to $ 488.60 . mr. kaiser said 0 there were no fundamental factors moving these markets . he noted that two weeks ago there were rumors of soviet sales of precious metals 0 to finance grain purchases , but the sales do n't seem to have materialized . ms. raptopoulos thought 0 yesterday 's price action reflected weakness in the stock market and the dollar . `` gold still acts as a haven when uncertainty prevails in the financial markets as it did '' yesterday , she said . mr. kaiser noted that gold was more than 71 times the price of silver at the close yesterday , which is historically high . `` the high ratio reflects the fact that silver is still regarded as about a half-industrial metal and its price lagging relative to gold says that traders are expecting a weakening economy , '' he said . grains and soybeans : prices closed lower after trading in relatively narrow ranges because of strong selling in the cash market and continued favorable harvest weather . the sale to the chinese government of 330,000 metric tons of wheat under the government 's export enhancement program was announced after the close of trading monday , but the sale was expected and failed to buoy prices yesterday , said 0 dale gustafson , a futures analyst with drexel burnham lambert inc. in chicago . as for other export customers , the soviet union is n't expected to be back buying u.s. corn in significant amounts until early next year , he said 0 . a number of commercial grain users buttressed that opinion yesterday by buying certain corn options for delivery in march , indicating to analysts that the commercial companies would use the options to hedge against expected corn sales in next year 's first quarter . cocoa : futures at first continued the rally begun on monday , but then faltered and closed lower . the december contract opened just under monday 's close , triggered some previously placed buy orders just above $ 1,030 a metric ton , pushing the price to $ 1,040 , and then encountered heavy selling by traders who buy and sell for their own accounts and by commercial interests . the contract settled at $ 1,014 a ton , off $ 13 . robert hafer , senior commodities analyst at kaiser financial group , said 0 monday 's rally continued yesterday for only about 20 minutes after the opening . he said 0 even though there was arbitrage buying in new york because of the weak dollar , cocoa fell to relentless pressure from bearish traders . but he noted that speculators apparently do n't believe 0 there is much more of a decline in store for cocoa . the december contract reached its life-of-contract low of $ 975 a ton on oct. 11 ; its lifetime high was $ 1,735 , set in 1988 , and its recent high was $ 1,368 , set in early august . the last time 0 cocoa traded at prices as low as currently was in 1974 . but while further modest declines might be ahead , mr. hafer said 0 it would be difficult to get through resistance levels just above yesterday 's high .