crane co. said 0 it holds an 8.9 % stake in milton roy corp. , an analytical-instruments maker , and may seek control of the company . crane , a maker of engineered products for aerospace , construction , defense and other uses , made the disclosure in a securities and exchange commission filing . in the filing , crane said that in the past it considered seeking control of milton roy , of st. petersburg , fla. , through a merger or tender offer and that it expects to continue to evaluate an acquisition from time to time . crane officials did n't return phone calls seeking comment . crane holds 504,200 milton roy shares , including 254,200 bought from sept. 14 to thursday for $ 15.50 to $ 16.75 each . in new york stock exchange composite trading friday , milton roy shares leaped $ 2 , to $ 18.375 each , while crane sank $ 1.125 , to $ 21.125 a share . john m. mcnamara , chief financial officer of milton roy , said 0 the company has no comment on crane 's filing . milton roy recently fended off unsolicited overtures from thermo electron corp. , a waltham , mass. , maker of biomedical products . milton roy disclosed in may that it was approached for a possible acquisition by thermo electron , which agreed to purchase milton roy 's liquid-chromatography line for $ 22 million in february . thermo electron acquired some 6 % of milton roy 's common stock before throwing in the towel and reducing its stake in early september . gabelli group began raising its milton roy stake in july , and holds 14.6 % , according to a recent sec filing . it has n't made merger overtures to the board . earlier this month , milton roy signed a letter of intent to acquire automated custom systems inc. , orange , calif. , and its sister operation , environmental testing co. , in aurora , colo . the companies are automotive-emissions-testing concerns . under the terms , milton roy will pay an initial $ 4 million for the operations and additional payments during the next four years based on the earnings performance of the businesses . in the nine months , milton roy earned $ 6.6 million , or $ 1.18 a share , on sales of $ 94.3 million .