l.j. hooker corp. is expected to reach an agreement in principle this week to sell merksamer jewelers inc. to management , say 0 executives familiar with the talks . l.j. hooker , based in atlanta , filed for chapter 11 bankruptcy protection earlier this year . currently , its parent company , hooker corp. of sydney , australia , is being managed by a court-appointed liquidator . it is expected that ge capital corp. , a financial-services subsidiary of general electric co. , will provide much of the funding for the proposed leveraged buy-out of merksamer , based in sacramento , calif . a spokesman for ge capital declined to comment . ge capital has a working relationship with l.j. hooker . it is providing $ 50 million in emergency financing to the company and has agreed to buy as much as $ 75 million in receivables from b. altman & co. and bonwit teller , l.j. hooker 's two fully owned department-store chains . sam merksamer , chief executive officer of the nationwide jewelry chain , and sanford sigoloff , chief executive of l.j. hooker corp. , both declined to comment . currently , mr. merksamer owns 20 % of the company ; l.j. hooker acquired its 80 % interest in the firm in may 1986 . at the time , the merksamer chain had 11 stores in operation . today , there are 77 units , all located in shopping malls . in recent weeks mr. merksamer has approached a number of his suppliers and asked them to provide letters of intent saying 0 they will continue shipping merchandise to the chain following the buy-out , say 0 those familiar with the situation . this year , a number of retail leveraged buyouts have failed , causing jitters among suppliers , and mr. merksamer apparently wanted assurances that he wo n't have delivery problems . for the year ended june 30 , 1989 , merksamer jewelers had $ 62 million of revenue and operating profit of $ 2.5 million . the jewelery chain was put up for sale in june . according to those familiar with the situation , other bidders included ratners group plc of london and kay jewelers inc . first boston corp. is advising l.j. hooker on the sale of the merksamer business . merksamer was the first in a series of retail acquisitions made by l.j. hooker . the company was founded in sacramento in 1929 by two brothers , ralph and walter merksamer , who operated as devon 's jewelers . in 1979 , the pair split the company in half , with walter and his son , sam , agreeing to operate under the merksamer jewelery name . the sale of merksamer jewelers is subject to approval by judge tina brozman of u.s. bankruptcy court . as earlier reported , l.j. hooker this week received a $ 409 million bid for its three shopping malls , plus other properties from a consortium led by honolulu real-estate investor jay shidler and a. boyd simpson , an atlanta developer and former l.j. hooker senior executive . the offer , which did n't include the merksamer chain , is being reviewed by mr. sigoloff .