it was n't so long ago that a radio network funded by the u.s. congress -- and originally by the central intelligence agency -- was accused by officials here of employing propagandists , imperialists and spies . now , the network has opened a news bureau in the hungarian capital . employees held an open house to celebrate and even hung out a sign : `` szabad europa radio '' -- radio free europe . `` i think 0 this is a victory for the radio , '' says barnabas de bueky , a 55-year-old former hungarian refugee who works in the munich , west germany , headquarters as deputy director of the hungarian service . in fact , the network hopes to set up offices in warsaw and anywhere else in the east bloc that will have it . but the rapid changes brought on by glasnost and open borders are altering the network 's life in more ways than one . in fact , radio free europe is in danger of suffering from its success . while the network currently can operate freely in budapest , so can others . in addition , competition for listeners is getting tougher in many ways than when broadcasting here was strictly controlled . instead of being denounced as an evil agent of imperialism , radio free europe is more likely to draw the criticism that its programs are too tame , even boring . `` they have a lot 0 to do these days to compete with hungarian radio , '' says andrew deak , a computer-science student at the technical university in budapest . `` the hungarian -lcb- radio -rcb- reporters seem better informed and more critical about about what 's going on here . '' indeed , hungary is in the midst of a media explosion . boys on busy street corners peddle newspapers of every political stripe . newsstands are packed with a colorful array of magazines . radio and television are getting livelier and bolder . the british broadcasting corp. and the u.s. state department 's voice of america broadcast over hungarian airwaves , though only a few hours a day each in hungarian . australian press magnate rupert murdoch has bought 50 % stakes in two popular and gossipy hungarian newspapers , while britain 's robert maxwell has let it be known here that he is thinking about similar moves . but radio free europe does n't plan to fade away . with its mission for free speech and the capitalist way , the network 's staff says 0 it still has plenty 0 to do -- in hungary and in the `` great eastern beyond . '' radio free europe and its sister station for the soviet union , radio liberty , say 0 they wo n't cut back their more than 19 hours of daily broadcasts . they are still an important source of news for 60 million listeners in 23 exotic tongues : from bulgarian and belorussian to kazakh and kirghiz . the establishment of its first bureau in warsaw pact territory shows the depth of some of the changes in eastern europe . months before the decision by the hungarian communist party to rename itself socialist and try to look more appealing to voters , the country 's rulers were trying to look more hospitable . it proved a perfect time for radio free europe to ask for permission to set up office . not only did the hungarian ministry of foreign affairs approve radio free europe 's new location , but the ministry of telecommunications did something even more amazing : `` they found us four phone lines in central budapest , '' says geza szocs , a radio free europe correspondent who helped organize the budapest location . `` that is a miracle . '' it 's a far cry from the previous treatment of the network , which had to overcome jamming of its frequencies and intimidation of local correspondents -lrb- who filed reports to the network by phone , secret messengers or letters -rrb- . in fact , some of the network 's hungarian listeners say 0 they owe radio free europe loyalty because it was responsible in many ways for keeping hope alive through what one writer here calls the `` dark ages of the 20th century . '' `` during the past four years , many of us have sat up until late at night listening to our radios , '' says the writer . `` there were some very brave broadcasts . '' the listeners , too , had to be brave . through much of the post-world war ii period , listening to western broadcasts was a crime in hungary . `` when we listen to the europe station , my mother still gets nervous , '' says a budapest translator . `` she wants to turn down the volume and close the curtains . '' now , the toughest competition for radio free europe comes during the late-night slot . hungarian radio often saves its most politically outspoken broadcasts for around midnight . television , which most of the time is considered rather tame , has entered the running with a new program , `` the end of the day , '' which comes on after 11 p.m . it is a talk show with opposition leaders and political experts who discuss hungary 's domestic problems as well as foreign affairs . those who want to hear even more radical views have to get up at five on sunday morning for `` sunday journal , '' on hungarian radio . the competitive spirit is clearly influencing radio free europe , which is trying to beef up programs . the budapest office plans to hire free-lance reporters to cover the latest happenings in hungarian country towns from nagykanizsa in the west to nyiregyhaza in the east . the hungarian service has a daily 40-minute news show called newsreel , with international and domestic news , plus a daily news review of opinions from around the world . there 's also a host of new programs , trying to lighten up on the traditional diet of politics . a daily 35-minute program called `` the march of time '' tries to find interesting tidbits of lighthearted news and gossip from around the world . there 's a program for women and a science show . and to attract younger listeners , radio free europe intersperses the latest in western rock groups . the pet shop boys are big this year in budapest . `` we are starving for all the news , '' says mr. deak , the student . `` every moment we want to know everything about the world .