ground zero of the hud scandal is the secretary 's `` discretionary fund , '' a honey pot used to fund projects that were n't approved through normal hud channels . jack kemp wants to abolish it . instead , congress 's idea of reform is to increase this slush fund by $ 28.4 million . and transfer control of much of it to capitol hill . the hud scandals will simply continue , but under new mismanagement . after one of the most amazing debates 0 we 've ever seen on the cable channel c-span , the house voted 250 to 170 on wednesday to order $ 28.4 million in spending for a new jersey arts center , a michigan library and 38 other pet projects out of the same discretionary fund that was supposed to have been so abused during sam pierce 's tenure . hud has no paper work whatsoever on 30 of the projects , none of the others has been approved and not a single congressional hearing has been held on any of them . however , four are in the michigan district of rep. bob traxler , the chairman of the house subcommittee that writes the hud spending bill . of course , this kind of blatant congressional pork-barreling is called `` constituent service '' by members , while the same kind of noncompetitive favoritism at hud is labeled `` influence peddling . '' unlike those awful republican consultants , members do n't profit directly from hud projects . they merely collect campaign contributions from developers that help keep them in office . the 40 pet projects were discovered buried in the appropriations bill for hud and some other agencies after it returned from a conference committee that was called to resolve differences between the house and senate versions . conference committees are breeding grounds for mischief . they are often closed to the public and no minutes are taken . members find it easy to doctor legislation by slipping in special provisions that could never survive in the cold light of day . in this case , the members outdid themselves . they transferred some $ 28 million from the community development block grant program designated largely for low - and moderate-income projects and funneled it into such items as : -- $ 1.2 million for a performing-arts center in newark , -- $ 1.3 million for `` job retention '' in hawaiian sugar mills . -- $ 400,000 for a collapsing utility tunnel in salisbury , -- $ 500,000 for `` equipment and landscaping 0 to deter crime and aid police surveillance '' at a michigan park . -- $ 450,000 for `` integrated urban data based in seven cities . '' no other details . -- $ 390,000 for a library and recreation center at mackinac island , mich . rep. traxler recently purchased an unimproved building lot on the island .