in a move that could pose a new competitive challenge to time warner inc. 's powerful home box office , cable giant tele-communications inc. agreed to buy half of showtime networks inc. from viacom inc. for $ 225 million . the purchase comes after nearly three years of on-again off-again talks between tci and viacom , which has also discussed the sale of an interest in showtime with other cable operators . showtime is a distant no. 2 to home box office , and in may filed a $ 2.5 billion antitrust suit against time warner , charging the company and its hbo and american television cable units with conspiring to monopolize the pay tv business . hbo has close to 24 million subscribers to its hbo and cinemax networks , while showtime and its sister service , the movie channel , have only about 10 million , according to paul kagan associates , a carmel , calif. , research firm . for tci , the investment in showtime puts it in an unusual position ; as the largest cable operator , with control of close to 12 million of the nation 's 52 million cable subscribers , tci is hbo 's largest customer . but tci president john malone has long been concerned about hbo 's dominance of the pay tv business , and has been eager to keep showtime as a healthy competitor . `` it is important to the cable industry that we have a vibrant and competitive pay-television marketplace , '' mr. malone said in a statement . in a telephone interview , robert thomson , tci senior vice president , said 0 showtime 's suit against hbo `` does n't involve us , and nothing 0 we 're doing here bears any relationship to that . '' he added , `` we do n't intend to be drawn into it , '' noting that tci wo n't play any active role in the management of showtime . linking up showtime with the largest cable operator in the u.s. could sharply boost its subscribers . tci said 0 it may bring in other cable operators as investors , a practice 0 it has employed in the past with investments in other cable networks , such as the discovery channel . additional cable partners could boost subscribers even further . time warner declined comment . in addition to owning hbo , time warner owns american television & communications inc. , the nation 's second largest cable operator after tci . viacom also owns cable systems , but it is the 14th largest operator of such systems , with less than one million subscribers . the tci investment is a big victory for viacom 's chief executive officer , frank biondi , and winston h. cox , president of the showtime unit . `` this takes any question of showtime 's viability and puts it away once and for all , '' mr. biondi said in a telephone interview . the fight between hbo and showtime is particularly acrimonious because mr. biondi is the former chief executive of hbo , and mr. cox served as chief of marketing for the service . they were both hired by sumner redstone , the boston billionaire who took control of viacom three years ago in a leveraged buy-out . time warner has vigorously denied all of viacom 's allegations .