axa-midi assurances of france gave details of its financing plans for its proposed $ 4.5 billion acquisition of farmers group inc. , in amended filings with insurance regulators in the nine u.s. states where farmers operates . the proposed acquisition is part of sir james goldsmith 's unfriendly takeover attempt for b.a.t industries plc , the british tobacco , retailing , paper and financial services concern that is parent of los angeles-based farmers . in an attempt to appease u.s. regulators ' concern over a goldsmith acquisition of farmers , sir james in august agreed to sell farmers to axa if he is successful in acquiring b.a.t . as part of the agreement , axa agreed to invest $ 1 billion in hoylake investments ltd. , sir james 's acquisition vehicle . of the total $ 5.5 billion 0 to be paid to hoylake by axa , about $ 1 billion will come from available resources of axa 's parent , axa-midi group , $ 2.25 billion will be in the form of notes issued by axa , and the remaining $ 2.25 billion will be in long-term bank loans . in an interview thursday , claude bebear , chairman and chief executive officer of axa , said 0 his group has already obtained assurances from a group of banks led by cie . financiere de paribas that they can provide the loan portion of the financing . the other banking companies in the group are credit lyonnais , societe generale , bankamerica corp. and citicorp , he said 0 . mr. bebear said 0 axa-midi group has `` more than $ 2.5 billion of non-strategic assets that we can and will sell '' to help pay off debt from the acquisition . he said 0 the assets 0 to be sold would be `` non-insurance '' assets , including a beer company and a real estate firm , and would n't include any pieces of farmers . `` we wo n't put any burden on farmers , '' he said . the amended filings also point out that under a new agreement , hoylake has an absolute obligation to sell farmers to axa upon an acquisition of b.a.t . `` we hope that with what we did , the regulators will not need to evaluate hoylake , and they can directly look at the agreement with us , because hoylake wo n't be an owner of farmers at anytime , '' mr. bebear said . any change of control in farmers needs approval of the insurance commissioners in the nine states where farmers and its related companies are incorporated . the amended filings were required because of the new agreement between axa and hoylake , and to reflect the extension that sir james received last month under british takeover rules to complete his proposed acquisition . hoylake dropped its initial # 13.35 billion -lrb- $ 20.71 billion -rrb- takeover bid after it received the extension , but said 0 it would launch a new bid if and when the propsed sale of farmers to axa receives regulatory approval . a spokesman for b.a.t said of the amended filings that , `` it would appear that nothing substantive has changed . the new financing structure is still a very-highly leveraged one , and axa still plans to take out 75 % of farmers ' earnings as dividends to service their debt . '' that dividend is almost double the 35 % currently taken out of farmers by b.a.t , the spokesman added 0 . `` it would have severe implications for farmers ' policy holders . '' to fend off sir james 's advances , b.a.t has proposed a sweeping restructuring that would pare it to a tobacco and financial services concern .