bank of new york co. said 0 it agreed in principle to acquire the credit-card business of houston-based first city bancorp. of texas for between $ 130 million and $ 134 million . the move , subject to a definitive agreement , is part of a trend by big-city banks that have been buying up credit-card portfolios to expand their business . just last month , a bank of new york subsidiary agreed to buy the credit-card operation of dreyfus corp. 's dreyfus consumer bank for $ 168 million , a transaction that is expected to be completed by the end of the year . first city 's portfolio includes approximately 640,000 accounts with about $ 550 million in loans outstanding . first city , which issues both mastercard and visa cards , has agreed to act as an agent bank . at the end of the third quarter , bank of new york 's credit-card business consisted of 2.4 million accounts with $ 3.6 billion in loans outstanding . bank of new york is currently the seventh-largest issuer of credit cards in the first city said that because of increased competition in the credit-card business , it had decided 0 it either had to expand its own holdings substantially or sell them . `` we think 0 there 's a good prospect that competition is going to get pretty fierce in this market , '' said james e. day , a first city vice president . `` we see it becoming a bargain-basement kind of business . '' the company estimated that the transaction would enhance its book value , which stood at $ 28.55 a share on sept. 30 , by more than $ 100 million , or about $ 4 a share . the company also said 0 the transaction would bolster after-tax earnings by $ 3.25 a share when completed and boost its primary capital ratio to 7 % from 6.63 % . first city , which recently purchased three small texas banking concerns , said 0 it would use the proceeds to pursue additional expansion opportunities in the southwest and elsewhere . with that possibility in mind , analysts said 0 the transaction was a positive move for first city . `` i think 0 they 'll be able to move faster to make acquisitions in texas , '' said brent erensel , an analyst with donaldson , lufkin & jenrette . `` that 's something 0 they can do very well .