investors are appealing to the securities and exchange commission not to limit their access to information about stock purchases and sales by corporate insiders . a sec proposal to ease reporting requirements for some company executives would undermine the usefulness of information on insider trades as a stock-picking tool , individual investors and professional money managers contend 0 . they make the argument in letters to the agency about rule changes proposed this past summer that , among other things , would exempt many middle-management executives from reporting trades in their own companies ' shares . the proposed changes also would allow executives to report exercises of options later and less often . many of the letters maintain that investor confidence has been so shaken by the 1987 stock market crash -- and the markets already so stacked against the little guy -- that any decrease in information on insider-trading patterns might prompt individuals to get out of stocks altogether . `` the sec has historically paid obeisance to the ideal of a level playing field , '' wrote clyde s. mcgregor of winnetka , ill. , in one of the 92 letters 0 the agency has received since the changes were proposed aug. 17 . `` apparently the commission did not really believe in this ideal . '' currently , the rules force executives , directors and other corporate insiders to report purchases and sales of their companies ' shares within about a month after the transaction . but about 25 % of the insiders , according to sec figures , file their reports late . the changes were proposed in an effort to streamline federal bureaucracy and boost compliance by the executives `` who are really calling the shots , '' said 0 brian lane , special counsel at the sec 's office of disclosure policy , which proposed the changes . investors , money managers and corporate officials had until today to comment on the proposals , and the issue has produced more mail than almost any other issue in memory , mr. lane said 0 . the sec will probably vote on the proposal early next year , he said 0 . not all those who wrote oppose the changes . the committee on federal regulation of securities for the american bar association argues , for example , in its lengthy letter to the sec , that the proposed changes `` would substantially improve the -lcb- law -rcb- by conforming it more closely to contemporary business realities . '' what the investors who oppose the proposed changes object to most is the effect 0 they say 0 the proposal would have on their ability to spot telltale `` clusters '' of trading activity -- buying or selling by more than one officer or director within a short period of time . according to some estimates , the rule changes would cut insider filings by more than a third . the sec 's mr. lane vehemently disputed those estimates . the rules will eliminate filings policy-making divisions , such as sales , marketing , finance and research and development , mr. lane said 0 . the proposed rules also would be tougher on the insiders still required to file reports , he said 0 . companies would be compelled to publish in annual proxy statements the names of insiders who fail to file reports on time . considered as a whole , mr. lane said , the filings required under the proposed rules `` will be at least as effective , if not more so , for investors following transactions . '' but robert gabele , president of invest\/net , a north miami , fla. , company that packages and sells the insider-trading data , said 0 the proposal is worded so vaguely that key officials may fail to file the reports . many investors wrote asking the sec to require insiders to report their purchases and sales immediately , not a month later . but mr. lane said that while the sec regulates who files , the law tells them when to do so . investors who want to change the required timing should write their representatives in congress , he added 0 . the sec would likely be amenable to legislation that required insiders to file transactions on a more timely basis , he said 0 .