nelson bunker hunt 's attempted corner on silver a decade ago is still haunting the market in this metal . silver , now trading around $ 5 an ounce , surged to an all-time peak of $ 50 an ounce in january 1980 from around $ 9 in mid-1979 . `` mr. hunt 's attempt to squeeze the silver market 10 years ago is still indirectly to blame for today 's market depression , '' says lesley edgar , managing director of sharps pixley ltd. , london bullion brokers . while some 100 million ounces of silver once held by mr. hunt and middle eastern associates are n't hanging over the market anymore , the price surge of 1979-80 precipitated an expansion of mine production and scrap recovery and encouraged silver consumers to economize on silver use , mr. edgar says 0 . photographic developers , for example , bought equipment 0 to recover silver from spent photographs , negatives and processing solutions . meanwhile , the photographic industry , which accounts for 44 % of silver consumption , continues to look for substitutes . japanese and u.s. photographic firms are beginning to produce electronic cameras and x-rays that do n't require silver , dealers say 0 . silver 's history of volatility is also discouraging investors , dealers say 0 . even in the present uncertain investment climate , investors are preferring `` quality assets '' such as treasury bills and bonds to gold , silver and platinum , dealers say 0 . although prices rallied briefly following the tumble on world stock markets earlier this month and the related decline of the dollar , precious metals are out of favor for the moment because of high interest rates and a determination by industrial nations to curb inflation , dealers say 0 . silver , however is in a deeper slump than are gold and platinum . some analysts contend that silver is cheap now that prices are languishing at levels last seen in the mid-1970s . `` bargain hunters believe that silver offers the best value amongst precious metals , '' says frederick r. demler , analyst at drexel burnham lambert inc . a further decline in prices will lead to mine production cuts in the u.s. , he says 0 . scrap merchants are converting smaller quantities of metal into silver , while low prices are discouraging exports from india and the soviet union . silver prices could also be boosted by strikes in leading producing nations peru and mexico , mr. demler says 0 . meanwhile , total fabrication demand for silver has risen six years in a row , he says 0 . japanese demand grew by 70 % in the first half of this year and the nation plans an issue of a silver commemorative coin that will require 4.5 million ounces . compared with huge annual surpluses of more than 100 million ounces in the first half of the 1980s , world silver supplies and consumption are now nearly in balance , mr. demler says 0 . despite intermittent rallies in the past few years , improvements in the supply-demand balance have n't managed to push silver prices into a higher range . `` there 's just too much silver around , '' says tom butler , an analyst at samuel montagu & co. , a london bullion house . a huge silver stockpile at exchanges , refiners , consuming industries and government warehouses of at least 617 million ounces is the market depressant , says 0 shearson lehman hutton inc. in a report . this year alone , inventories at the commodity exchange of new york jumped `` by a staggering 46 million to 221 million ounces '' because of producer deliveries , de-stocking by fabricators and sales by disenchanted investors , says 0 rhona o'connell , london-based precious metals analyst at shearson lehman hutton . `` silver production is also in an inexorable upward trend , '' ms. o'connell says . moreover , while asian and middle eastern investors hoard gold and help underpin its price , silver does n't have the same mystique , dealers say 0 . investors have gotten burned on silver so often that they are far more partial to gold , says 0 urs seiler , senior vice president at union bank of switzerland . yet if gold prices improve , silver prices could rally sharply , he says 0 . however , dealers caution that any increase would be $ 1 to $ 2 at most . looking ahead to other commodity markets this week : livestock and meats analysts expect the prices of live cattle futures contracts to rise in trading today in the wake of a government quarterly census that found fewer-than-expected cattle on feedlots . after the close of trading friday , the agriculture department reported that feedlots in the 13 biggest ranch states held 8.06 million cattle on oct. 1 , down 6 % from that date a year earlier . most analysts had expected the government to report a 4 % decline . feedlots fatten young cattle for slaughter , so a decline signals a tightening supply of beef . the government reported that the number of young cattle placed on feedlots during the quarter dropped 5 % compared with the year-earlier quarter . many industry analysts had been projecting a 3 % decline in placements for the quarter . in the 1988 quarter , many farmers were forced to sell their cattle to feedlot operators because the drought dried out the pasture on their ranches . the number of cattle moving onto feedlots in the recent quarter was also lower because fattening cattle is less profitable . a shortage of young cattle has made them more expensive for feedlot operators to buy . the agriculture department also said that the number of fattened cattle slaughtered in the quarter dropped by 5 % from the 1988 quarter , which was in line with projections by analysts . energy friday 's 44-cent-a-barrel price drop to $ 19.98 in the expiring november contract for west texas intermediate crude may well set the tone for trading this week in petroleum futures on the new york mercantile exchange . most traders and analysts attributed the decline to technical factors associated with the contract 's going off the board . others said that the drop continued the downward correction that 's been due in the petroleum pits and that such a trend could well continue in the next several trading sessions . barring any petroleum-related news events , trading in the days ahead should further test recent projections by oil economists and other market watchers that strong fourth-quarter demand will keep prices firm . copper copper prices fell sharply friday afternoon . for example , copper for december delivery settled 4.5 cents lower at $ 1.2345 a pound . pressure came from several developments including the settlement of two long-term strikes . on friday , one analyst said 0 , rank-and-file workers ratified a new labor agreement ending a three-month strike at the highland valley mine in british columbia . in mexico , the analyst added , employees at the cananea mine , who have been out of work since late august when the mine was declared bankrupt by the government , accepted a 35 % cut in the 3,800-man work force . the mine is expected to return to production in about a week . on friday , selling dominated the afternoon `` curb '' session in london , which takes place at noon edt . the premium of cash copper to the three-month forward offerings narrowed , indicating weaker demand for cash copper . long-term support for the december contract was believed to be at $ 1.25 a pound . a technical analyst said 0 there were a number of stop-loss orders under that level that were touched off when the contract 's price fell below it . that brought in considerable fund selling , which continued until the close of trading . `` in general , it was a bearish close , '' said ben hanauer , a copper trader at rudolph wolff & co. , a major commodities trading and brokerage firm . but whether this price break has implications for this week , he said 0 , `` we will know more when the london metal exchange copper stock levels are released monday morning . '' another analyst said 0 he expected lme inventories to be down by about 15,000 tons when the weekly report is issued . bernard savaiko , senior commodities analyst at painewebber inc. , said that when traders saw 0 the market was n't reacting positively to the forecasts of lower lme stocks , they perceived a bearish sign . he also noted that the japanese , who had been buying at prices just above the $ 1.25 level , apparently pulled back from the market on friday . mr. savaiko said 0 he sees a possibility of the december contract dropping to $ 1.05 a pound .