senate leaders traded proposals aimed at speeding action on legislation 0 to narrow the deficit and raise the federal government 's debt limit -- but the major stumbling block remains president bush 's proposal to cut the capital-gains tax rate . democrats want the tax provision to be a separate bill , subject to the usual procedural obstacles . republicans , meanwhile , want to try to protect the measure by combining it with two politically popular issues that democrats could find hard 0 to block . the talks between senate majority leader george mitchell of maine and his gop counterpart , sen. robert dole of kansas , are expected to resume today . last night , after meeting with mr. bush and administration officials at the white house , mr. dole proposed streamlining the fiscal 1990 deficit-reduction bill , now stalled in a house-senate conference committee , and passing a long-term extension of the federal debt ceiling without any accompanying amendments . under this plan , two provisions currently in the house version of the deficit-cutting bill -- repeal of both the catastrophic-illness insurance program and a controversial 1986 tax provision intended to counter discrimination in employee-benefit plans -- would be made into a separate bill . republicans would try to attach a capital-gains provision to that legislation , hoping 0 the political popularity of its other two parts would dissuade democrats from blocking it . democrats want to avoid having to make that choice by making the capital-gains tax cut an individual bill . sen. mitchell is confident 0 he has sufficient votes to block such a measure with procedural actions . both plans would drop child-care provisions from the house version of the deficit-reduction legislation and let it progress as a separate bill . while that could make it vulnerable to a veto by mr. bush , democrats argue that a presidential rejection would give their party a valuable issue in next year 's congressional elections . senate democrats are to meet today to consider the gop proposal . yesterday , mr. dole seemed weary of the bush administration 's strategy of pushing the capital-gains measure at every chance in the face of democratic procedural hurdles . pushing the issue on legislation needed to avoid default by the federal government , he told reporters 0 , `` does n't seem to be very good strategy to me . '' at 12:01 a.m. est today , the federal government 's temporary $ 2.87 trillion debt limit expired . to avoid default , lawmakers must pass legislation raising the limit to $ 3.12 trillion from $ 2.80 trillion by next wednesday , according to the treasury . pressed by chairman dan rostenkowski -lrb- d. , ill . -rrb- of the house ways and means committee , treasury undersecretary robert glauber told a congressional hearing that the administration would give up its demand for the capital-gains tax cut if faced with a potential default .