ual corp. 's board quashed any prospects for an immediate revival of a labor-management buy-out , saying 0 united airlines ' parent should remain independent for now . as a result , ual 's chairman , stephen m. wolf , pulled out of the buy-out effort to focus on running the company . the two developments put the acquisition attempt back to square one and leaves the airline with an array of unresolved matters , including an unsettled labor situation and a management scrambling to restore its damaged credibility . the effort to create the nation 's largest employee-owned company began unraveling oct. 13 when the labor-management group was unable to obtain financing for its $ 300-a-share , $ 6.79 billion offer . just last week it suffered another major setback when british airways plc , the largest equity investor in the labor-management bid , withdrew its support . takeover stock traders , focusing on the company 's intention to stay independent , took the announcement as bad news . ual , which had risen $ 9.875 to $ 178.375 in composite trading on the new york stock exchange on reports of a new bid being prepared by the group , reversed course and plummeted in off-exchange trading after the 5:09 p.m. edt announcement . among the first trades reported by the securities firm of jefferies & co. , which makes a market in ual after the exchange is closed , were 10,000 shares at $ 170 , 6,000 shares at $ 162 , 2,500 at $ 162 , and 10,000 at $ 158 . the rebound in ual stock during regular trading hours monday was its first daily gain after six consecutive losses left the price 41 % below its level before oct. 13 , the day 0 the group announced 0 the bank financing could n't be obtained for the original deal . twelve of ual 's outside directors met at a five-hour meeting yesterday in chicago to consider an informal proposal from the buy-out group for a revised bid . but the board said 0 it was n't interested for now . that proposal , valued at between $ 225 and $ 240 a share , would have transferred majority ownership to employees while leaving some stock in public hands . the buy-out group had no firm financing for the plan . and , with no other offers on the table , the board apparently felt no pressure to act on it . the directors signaled , however , that they would be willing to consider future offers or take some other action to maximize shareholder value , saying 0 they would continue to explore `` all strategic and financial alternatives . '' but it was clear that for the time being , the board wants the company to return to normalcy . the board said 0 it concluded that `` the welfare of the company , its shareholders , its employees and the broader public ... can best be enhanced by continued development of ual as a strong , viable , independent company . '' mr. wolf urged all employees to `` now turn their full attention '' to operating the airline . he also vowed to `` make every effort to nurture ... a constructive new relationship that has been forged with participating employee groups . '' but mr. wolf faces a monumental task in pulling the company back together again . labor problems top the list . for a brief time , the buy-out effort seemed to solve his problems with united 's pilot union . in return for an ownership stake in the company , the pilots were willing to agree to a seven-year contract that included a no-strike clause and significant wage concessions and productivity gains 0 the union previously resisted . that contract was tied to the success of the buy-out . as a `` good-will measure , '' the pilots had been working four extra hours a month and had agreed to fly ual 's two new boeing 747-400 aircraft . it 's uncertain if the pilots will continue to do so without a contract settlement . the union said late last night that it is still committed to majority employee ownership and that the labor disputes that faced the company prior to the buy-out effort `` still need to be addressed . '' the buy-out effort also worsened already-strained relations between united 's pilot and machinist unions . the machinists ' criticisms of the labor-management bid and their threats of a strike unless they received substantial wage increases this year helped cool banks ' interest in financing the transaction . the machinists previously had shown themselves to be an ally to mr. wolf , but he lost much of his credibility with that group when he teamed up with the pilot union . the machinists criticized the terms 0 mr. wolf and management received in the buy-out . they paid $ 15 million for a 1 % stake and received an additional 9 % of the company at no additional cost . his credibility is also on the line in the investment community . until the collapse of this bid , mr. wolf was regarded as one of the nation 's savviest airline executives after engineering turnarounds of tiger international inc. and republic airlines . but he and his chief financial officer , john pope , sowed some of the seeds for the deal 's failure by insisting 0 banks accept low financing fees and interest rates , while they invested in the transaction only a small fraction of the $ 114.3 million 0 they stood to gain from sale of their ual stock and options . the board 's actions leave takeover stock traders nursing some $ 700 million in losses and eager to respond to anyone who might make a new offer . it also inevitably leaves a residue of shareholder lawsuits . arbitragers said 0 they were disappointed 0 the company did n't announce some recapitalization or other plan to maximize value . one takeover expert noted that arbitragers could force a recapitalization through the written consent process under which holders may oust the board by a majority vote . the machinists union has suggested 0 it may propose a recapitalization that includes a special dividend for holders and a minority ownership stake for employees . los angeles investor marvin davis , whose $ 240-a-share offer for ual in august triggered a bidding war , says 0 he remains interested in the airline . however , he is restricted from making certain hostile moves by an agreement 0 he signed to obtain confidential ual data . essentially , he ca n't make any hostile moves unless he makes a tender offer at least $ 300 a share .