-lrb- during its centennial year , the wall street journal will report events of the past century that stand as milestones of american business history . -rrb- puts and calls , stock market patois for options to sell or buy a company 's shares , were long an arcane wall street art best left to the experts , who used them either as a hedge or for pure speculation . options lost some of their mystery in 1973 when the chicago board of trade set up a special exchange 0 to deal in them . until then , options had been traded only in the over-the-counter market , mostly in new york , and in an almost invisible secondary market operating chiefly by telephone . the chicago board of trade , the no. 1 u.s. grain market , had long chafed under the attention won by its innovative archrival , the livestock-dealing mercantile exchange . so the men who ran the grain pits listened when joseph sullivan , a 35-year-old former wall street journal newsman , offered them the idea of all-options trading . after four year of tinkering and $ 2.4 million in seed money , the board set up the new marketplace , titled it the chicago board options exchange , and named sullivan its first president . the beginnings were modest . the cboe opened for business on april 26 , 1973 , in what had been a board of trade lunchroom . it listed just 16 options to buy a `` pilot list '' of stocks on the new york stock exchange . -lrb- puts , or sell options , would not be added until 1977 . -rrb- the 282 members had paid $ 10,000 apiece for seats . -lrb- the 1989 price : $ 250,000 . -rrb- the first day 's business was 911 contracts -lrb- each for 100 shares of one of the listed stocks -rrb- . by the end of 1973 , the number of `` underlying '' big board stocks had been increased to 50 and the options exchange had run up volume of 1.1 million contracts . a year later , it was 5.7 million . last year , more than 1,800 traders on the cboe bought and sold 112 million contracts on 178 listed stocks , 60 % of all u.s. listed options trading . the new exchange drew instant recognition from an unwelcome quarter . the government , campaigning against fixed brokerage commissions , promptly sued the cboe over its minimum-fee system .