the treasury said 0 it plans to sell $ 30 billion in notes and bonds next week , but said 0 the auctions will be postponed unless congress acts quickly to lift the federal debt ceiling . michael basham , deputy assistant secretary for federal finance , said 0 the treasury may wait until late monday or even early tuesday to announce whether the autions are to be rescheduled . unless it can raise money in financial markets , mr. basham said 0 , the federal government wo n't have the cash 0 to pay off $ 13.8 billion in treasury bills that mature on thursday . without congressional action , the treasury ca n't sell any new securities -- even savings bonds . but despite partisan bickering over the debt ceiling , which has become entangled in the fight over cutting capital-gains taxes , congress is almost certain to act in time 0 to avoid default . `` each day that congress fails to act ... will cause additional disruption in our borrowing schedule , possibly resulting in higher interest costs to the taxpayer , '' treasury secretary nicholas brady said in a speech prepared for delivery last night to a group of bankers . `` to avoid these costs , and a possible default , immediate action is imperative . '' the securities 0 to be sold next week will raise about $ 10 billion in cash and redeem $ 20 billion in maturing notes . the new securities , part of the federal government 's regular quarterly refunding , will consist of : -- $ 10 billion of three-year notes , 0 to be auctioned tuesday and to mature nov. 15 , 1992 . -- $ 10 billion of 10-year notes , 0 to be auctioned wednesday and to mature nov. 15 , 1999 . -- $ 10 billion of 30-year bonds , 0 to be auctioned thursday and to mature aug. 15 , 2019 . the treasury also said 0 it plans to sell $ 10 billion in 36-day cash management bills on thursday . they will mature dec. 21 . none of the securities will be eligible for when-issued trading until congress approves an increase in the debt ceiling , clearing the way for a formal offering , mr. basham said 0 . the treasury said 0 it needs to raise $ 47.5 billion in the current quarter in order to end december with a $ 20 billion cash balance . auctions held in october and those scheduled for next week will raise a total of $ 25.6 billion . the remaining $ 21.9 billion could be raised through the sale of short-term treasury bills , two-year notes in november and five-year notes in early december , the treasury said 0 . in the first three months of 1990 , the treasury estimates that it will have to raise between $ 45 billion and $ 50 billion , assuming that it decides to aim for a $ 10 billion cash balance at the end of march .