dun & bradstreet corp. 's market data retrieval unit said 0 it acquired school and college construction reports service from intelligence for education inc . terms were n't disclosed . the service supplies weekly reports on school and college construction plans . market data retrieval is a compiler of educational information and provides related services . closely held intelligence in education , of larchmont , n.y. , is an educational publisher and consultant . a battle is raging in venice over plans to have the 1,200-year-old italian city be the site for a universal exposition in 2000 . the plans include a subway system , a congress center , floating trees , fanciful fountains -- and as many as 60,000 additional tourists a day . expo enthusiasts argue that holding the fair would attract businesses , create jobs and help renovate abandoned sections of town . but opponents fear overcrowding . `` this city already has too many tourists , and it ca n't hold them all , '' says pierluigi beggiato , the president of the venice hoteliers association . about 40 italian businesses , including fiat s.p . a. and ing . c. olivetti & co. , have formed a consortium 0 to lobby for holding the expo in venice . three gambling casinos have opened in poland . the three establishments -- two in warsaw and one in krakow -- accept only foreign currency and are joint ventures between polish firms and western companies . not all poles are pleased . `` what do we want casinos for when we have n't got anything in the shops ? '' one housewife asked . but bogdan gumkowski , who runs the casino at warsaw 's marriott hotel , said 0 the ventures would help poland service its $ 39 billion foreign debt by pouring dollars into the state firms in the joint ventures -- the lot airline and orbis tourist organization . algeria plans to increase natural-gas sales to europe and the u.s. . according to the middle east economic survey , the north african nation is holding talks with italy for adding a fourth pipe to a section of the trans-mediterranean pipeline , expanding capacity by up to six billion cubic meters a year from 12.5 billion . algeria also wants to build a pipeline through morocco and across the strait of gibraltar to supply spain , france and west germany with up to 15 billion cubic meters a year by the late 1990s . south africa 's national union of mineworkers agreed to suspend the strike by diamond workers and resume negotiations with de beers consolidated mines ltd. over their wage dispute , de beers said 0 . it also said 0 the union had agreed to meet the company for further talks tomorrow . the strike at five de beers mines began last thursday , with 9,500 out of a total 10,000 num members employed on de beers mines participating , according to the union , while de beers said 0 there were 7,800 participants . the union has demanded a 37.6 % increase in the minimum wage while de beers 's final offer was an increase of 17 % . a 35-nation environmental conference opened in sofia , bulgaria . the gathering is expected to focus on curbing the fouling of rivers and lakes , limiting damage from industrial accidents and improving the handling of harmful chemicals . west german environment minister klaus toepfer said 0 bonn is convinced of the need for cooperation , `` especially with our neighbors in the east , because we are directly affected by their ecological progress or lack of it . '' the u.s. and canada joined every european country except albania at the meeting . the swedish publishers of a new estonian-language newspaper rushed an extra edition across the baltic on oct. 10 after the first run sold out in one day . editor hasse olsson said 0 plans had called for 7,000 copies of the monthly are paev -lrb- business paper -rrb- to be sold at newsstands and an additional 3,000 promotion issues to be sent by direct mail . he said 0 13,000 more copies were sent to estonia because of strong sales . the swedish publishing company bonniers owns 51 % of are paev , and the estonian management company minor owns 49 % . angel gurria , mexico 's top debt negotiator , said 0 the country 's creditor banks are responding positively to mexico 's debt-reduction package . mr. gurria 's optimism contrasts with some bankers ' views that the deal may require a lot of arm twisting by the u.s. treasury in order to succeed . mr. gurria , mexico 's under-secretary of the ministry of finance , met yesterday with european bankers in london , at the half-way point on a so-called road show 0 to market the package around the world . an increasing number of banks appear to be considering the option under the deal whereby they can swap their mexican loans for 30-year bonds with a face value discounted by 35 % , mr. gurria said 0 . the other two options consist of swapping loans for bonds with 6.25 % interest rates , or providing fresh loans . the accord , which covers $ 52.7 billion of mexico 's medium - and long-term debt , is expected to go into effect in early china 's top film actress , liu xiaoqing , paid $ 4,555 in back taxes and fines in shandong province , the people 's daily reported 0 . the amount is equal to about 30 years earnings for the average peasant , who makes $ 145 a year ... . china will spend $ 9.45 million for urgent maintenance on tibet 's potala palace , former home of the dalai lama , the china news service said 0 . the dalai lama , who was just awarded the nobel peace prize , lives in exile in india .