nicaraguan president daniel ortega may have accomplished over the weekend what his u.s. antagonists have failed to do : revive a constituency for the contra rebels . lawmakers have n't publicly raised the possibility of renewing military aid to the contras , and president bush parried the question at a news conference here saturday , saying only that `` if there 's an all-out military offensive , that 's going to change the equation 180 degrees . '' but mr. ortega 's threat over the weekend to end a 19-month cease-fire with the rebels seeking to topple him , effectively elevated the contras as a policy priority just as they were slipping from the agendas of their most ardent supporters . senate majority leader george mitchell -lrb- d. , maine -rrb- said yesterday on nbc-tv 's `` meet the press '' that mr. ortega 's threat was `` a very unwise move , particularly the timing of it . '' the threat came during a two-day celebration in costa rica 0 to highlight central america 's progress toward democracy in the region , attended by president bush , canadian prime minister brian mulroney and 14 other western hemisphere leaders . mr. bush returned to washington saturday night . mr. ortega announced on friday that he would end the cease-fire this week in response to the periodic contra assaults against his army . saturday , he amended his remarks to say that he would continue to abide by the cease-fire if the u.s. ends its financial support for the contras . he asked that the remaining u.s. humanitarian aid be diverted to disarming and demobilizing the rebels . not only did mr. ortega 's comments come in the midst of what was intended as a showcase for the region , it came as nicaragua is under special international scrutiny in anticipation of its planned february elections . outside observers are gathering in nicaragua to monitor the registration and treatment of opposition candidates . and important u.s. lawmakers must decide at the end of november if the contras are to receive the rest of the $ 49 million in so-called humanitarian assistance under a bipartisan agreement reached with the bush administration in march . the humanitarian assistance , which pays for supplies such as food and clothing for the rebels amassed along the nicaraguan border with honduras , replaced the military aid cut off by congress in february 1988 . while few lawmakers anticipated that the humanitarian aid would be cut off next month , mr. ortega 's threat practically guarantees that the humanitarian aid will be continued . senate minority leader robert dole -lrb- r. , kan . -rrb- said yesterday on `` meet the press '' : `` i would hope 0 after his -lcb- mr. ortega 's -rcb- act yesterday or the day before , we 'd have unanimous support for quick action on remaining humanitarian aid . '' sen. dole also said 0 he hoped for unanimous support for a resolution 0 he plans to offer tomorrow denouncing the nicaraguan leader . while renewing military aid had been considered out of the question , rejected by congress and de-emphasized by the bush administration , mr. ortega 's statement provides contra supporters with the opportunity to press the administration on the issue . `` the administration should now state that if the -lcb- february -rcb- election is voided by the sandinistas ... they should call for military aid , '' said former assistant secretary of state elliott abrams . `` in these circumstances , i think 0 they 'd win . '' sen. mitchell said that congressional democrats intend to honor the march agreement to give non-lethal support to the contras through the february elections , although he added that the agreement requires that the contras not initiate any military action . mr. ortega 's threat to breach the cease-fire comes as u.s. officials were acknowledging that the contras have at times violated it themselves . secretary of state james baker , who accompanied president bush to costa rica , told reporters friday : `` i have no reason 0 to deny reports that some contras ambushed some sandinista soldiers . '' mr. baker 's assistant for inter-american affairs , bernard aronson , while maintaining that the sandinistas had also broken the cease-fire , acknowledged : `` it 's never very clear who starts what . '' he added that the u.s. has cut off aid to some rebel units when it was determined that those units broke the cease-fire . in addition to undermining arguments in favor of ending contra aid , mr. ortega 's remarks also played to the suspicions of some u.s. officials and conservatives outside the government that he is searching for ways 0 to manipulate or void the february elections . administration officials traveling with president bush in costa rica interpreted mr. ortega 's wavering as a sign that he is n't responding to the military attacks so much as he is searching for ways 0 to strengthen his hand prior to the elections . mr. abrams said that mr. ortega is seeking to demobilize the contras prior to the elections to remove any pressure to hold fair elections . `` my sense is 0 what they have in mind is an excuse for clamping down on campaigning '' by creating an atmosphere of a military emergency , he said 0 .