william seidman , chairman of the federal deposit insurance corp. , said 0 lincoln savings & loan association should have been seized by the government in 1986 to contain losses that he estimated 0 will cost taxpayers as much as $ 2 billion . mr. seidman , who has been the nation 's top bank regulator , inherited the problems of lincoln , based in irvine , calif. , after his regulatory role was expanded by the new savings-and-loan bailout law . he made his comments before house banking committee hearings to investigate what appears to be the biggest thrift disaster in a scandal-ridden industry . the inquiry also will cover the actions of charles keating jr. , who is chairman of american continental corp. , lincoln 's parent , and who contributed heavily to several u.s. senators . mr. seidman told the committee that the resolution trust corp. , the agency created to sell sick thrifts , has studied lincoln 's examination reports by former regulators dating back to 1986 . `` my staff indicated that had we made such findings in one of our own institutions , we would have sought an immediate cease-and-desist order to stop the hazardous operations , '' mr. seidman said . when lincoln was seized by the government , for example , 15 % of its loans , or $ 250 million , were to borrowers who were buying real estate from one of american continental 's 50 other subsidiaries , according to mr. seidman . but the government did n't step in until six months ago , when thrift officials put lincoln into conservatorship -- the day after american continental filed for chapter 11 bankruptcy protection from creditors . the bankruptcy filing , the government has charged 0 in a $ 1.1 billion civil lawsuit , was part of a pattern to shift insured deposits to the parent company , which used the deposits as a cache for real-estate deals . the deposits that have been transferred to other subsidiaries are now under the jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court . `` i think 0 it 's fairly clear 0 -lcb- mr. keating -rcb- knew , '' that regulators were set to seize lincoln , mr. seidman said 0 . further investigation , he said 0 , may result in further actions against lincoln 's executives , said 0 mr. seidman , `` including fraud actions . '' mr. keating , for his part , has filed suit alleging that regulators unlawfully seized the thrift . leonard bickwit , an attorney in washington for mr. keating , declined to comment on the hearings , except to say 0 , `` we will be responding comprehensively in several forums to each of these allegations at the appropriate time . '' lincoln 's treatment by former thrift regulators , in an agency disbanded by the new law , has proved embarrassing for five senators who received thousands of dollars in campaign contributions from mr. keating . mr. seidman said yesterday , for example , that sen. dennis deconcini -lrb- d. , ariz. -rrb- , who received $ 48,100 in contributions from mr. keating , phoned mr. seidman to request that he push for a sale of lincoln before it would be seized . after the government lawsuit was filed against lincoln , sen. deconcini returned the campaign contributions . the senator 's spokesman said yesterday that he pushed for the sale of lincoln because `` hundreds of arizona jobs -lcb- at lincoln -rcb- were on the line . '' senate banking committee chairman donald riegle -lrb- d. , mich . -rrb- has also returned contributions 0 he received from mr. keating a year ago . sens. john glenn -lrb- d. , ohio -rrb- , john mccain , -lrb- r. , ariz. -rrb- and alan cranston -lrb- d. , calif. -rrb- also received substantial contributions from mr. keating and sought to intervene on behalf of lincoln . house banking committee chairman henry gonzalez -lrb- d. , texas -rrb- said 0 sen. cranston volunteered to appear before the house committee , if necessary . but a committee staff member said 0 the panel is unlikely to pursue closely the role of the senators . at the hearing , mr. seidman said 0 the rtc has already pumped $ 729 million into lincoln for liquidity . he also held out little hope of restitution for purchasers of $ 225 million in american continental subordinated debt . some of those debtholders have filed a suit , saying 0 they believed 0 they were buying government-insured certificates of deposit . `` we have no plans at this time to pay off those notes , '' he said .