sebastian guzman cabrera took over the oil workers union , mexico 's most powerful labor organization , only last january . but even in that short time mr. guzman cabrera has become as controversial in his own way as his deposed predecessor , joaquin hernandez galicia , known as la quina . president carlos salinas de gortari used the army to oust la quina , who reigned for 28 years over a graft-riddled empire that made state-run petroleos mexicanos , or pemex , one of the world 's most inefficient oil companies . now , mr. guzman cabrera is facing accusations that he 's as much a company man as la quina was a crook . in recent contract negotiations with pemex management , mr. guzman cabrera accepted major concessions that greatly curtail the union 's role in subcontracting , long a source of millions of dollars in illicit earnings . and with the quiet pragmatism of mr. guzman cabrera replacing the prickly populism of la quina , government technocrats have been given a free hand 0 to open the petrochemical sector to wider private and foreign investment . mr. guzman cabrera 's new order has n't arrived without resistance . brawls between union factions still erupt at pemex installations . leftist leader cuauhtemoc cardenas publicly questioned mr. guzman cabrera 's `` moral quality , '' suggesting 0 he is part of a conspiracy to turn over the country 's oil , a symbol of mexican nationalism , to foreigners . the 61-year-old mr. guzman cabrera takes such criticisms in stride . `` this is n't a new kind of union leadership , it 's a new mexico . we 're no longer afraid of associating with private or foreign capital , '' he says . pemex , which produces 40 % of government revenue , desperately needs new investment . since world oil prices collapsed in 1982 , the government has siphoned pemex 's coffers to make payments on mexico 's $ 97 billion foreign debt . little money has been returned 0 to upgrade pemex 's aging facilities . while the government drains pemex from above , the union has drained it from below . a bloated payroll and pervasive graft caused pemex 's operating costs to balloon to 95 cents of each $ 1 in sales , far above the industry norm . the declines in investment and efficiency explain in part why mexico has been importing gasoline this year . some projections show mexico importing crude by the end of the century , barring an overhaul of operations . `` whatever you tried to change , whether it was cutting costs or attracting new partners , the big obstacle was the old union leadership , '' says oil consultant george baker . enter mr. guzman cabrera , who has a clear understanding of where union leaders fit in the pro-enterprise regime of president salinas . `` i 'm the secretary-general , if there is one , '' he says , greeting a visitor to his office . beginning as a laborer in a refinery , mr. guzman cabrera put in more than 40 years at pemex before being pushed into retirement by la quina after a dispute two years ago . though he also long benefited from the system built by la quina , mr. guzman cabrera says 0 union perks had simply gotten out of hand . they are `` at the base of all of the problems of corruption , '' he says 0 . thus , in recent contract negotiations , mr. guzman cabrera gave up the union 's right to assign 40 % of all of pemex 's outside contracts -- an enormous source of kickbacks . the union also ceded the 2 % commission 0 it had received on all pemex maintenance contracts . -lrb- the union will keep a 2 % commission on construction projects . -rrb- the new contract also eliminates the $ 15 monthly coupon , good only at union-owned grocery stores , that was part of the salary of every worker , from roughneck to chief executive . about 9,800 technical workers , notably chemists and lawyers , were switched to non-union status . also , because of its reduced capital budget , pemex has phased out about 50,000 transitory construction workers , reducing the work force to about 140,000 , the union leader says 0 . mr. guzman cabrera says 0 the union 's sacrifices will be offset by a wage and benefit package that amounts to a 22 % increase in compensation . but pemex managers are the ones most thrilled by the contract . `` we are retaking the instruments of administration , '' says raul robles , a pemex subdirector . pemex officials would n't say how much money the new contract would save the company , but one previous government estimate pegged savings at around $ 500 million a year . pemex 's customers also are pleased with the company 's new spirit . grupo desc , a big conglomerate , has long depended on pemex petrochemicals to produce plastic packing material . but when the pemex plant shut down for an annual overhaul , it would never give notice to its customers . `` the capriciousness would completely disrupt our operations , '' says ernesto vega velasco , desc 's finance director . this year , for the first time , desc and other customers were consulted well in advance of the pemex plant 's shutdown to ensure minimal inconvenience . taming the union complements previous moves by the government to attract private investment in petrochemicals , which mexico has been forced to import in large quantities in recent years . in may , the government unveiled new foreign investment regulations that create special trusts allowing foreigners , long limited to a 40 % stake in secondary petrochemical companies , to own up to 100 % . later , the government reclassified several basic petrochemicals as secondary products . but pemex 's courtship with private companies , and especially foreign ones , is controversial in a country where oil has been a symbol of national sovereignty since foreign oil holdings were nationalized in 1938 . `` they are preparing the workers for what 's coming : foreign control , '' wrote heberto castillo , a leftist leader . mr. guzman cabrera and government officials insist that foreigners will be limited to investing in secondary petroleum products . but the new union leader makes no apologies for pemex 's more outward-looking attitude . `` if we do not integrate into this new world of interdependence , sooner or later we 're going to become victims of our own isolation , '' he says .