buying 51 % of rockefeller group inc. is right up mitsubishi estate co. 's alley in one sense : the huge japanese real estate company is entering a long-term relationship with a similarly conservative u.s. owner of tony urban property . but in another sense , the $ 846 million purchase is uncharacteristically nervy , industry analysts say 0 . the usually cautious giant will become the majority owner of the company that owns new york 's beloved rockefeller center at a time when tensions over japanese purchases of u.s. property are at an all-time high . officials of rockefeller group and mitsubishi estate prefer to focus on the affinities , nearly dismissing the threat of a backlash from the u.s. public . `` we think 0 there will be positive as well as negative reactions , '' says raymond pettit , senior vice president and chief financial officer of rockefeller group . `` on balance , we think 0 it will be positive . '' but some japanese government officials and businessmen worry that the prominent purchase is just the sort of deal that should be avoided for the time being . in particular , they criticize the timing , coming as it does on the heels of sony corp. 's controversial purchase of columbia pictures entertainment inc . `` officially , yes , we encourage the free flow of direct investment , '' says a foreign ministry official . `` but they did n't have to choose this particular moment . '' during the past year , government officials and leading business organizations have repeatedly urged japanese companies to refrain from flashy real estate purchases in the since the mid-1980s , japan 's other major real estate purchases in the u.s. include dai-ichi seimei america corp. 's $ 670 million purchase of an office building at 153 east 53rd st. in manhattan in 1987 and mitsui fudosan inc. 's $ 610 million purchase of the exxon building , part of rockefeller center , in 1986 . in los angeles , arco plaza was sold to shuwa corp. for $ 620 million in 1986 , and sumitomo life insurance co. paid $ 300 million for atlanta 's ibm tower last year . altogether , annual japanese investment in u.s. commercial real estate grew from about $ 1.3 billion in 1985 to about $ 7.1 billion in 1988 . many japanese companies have taken the warnings by the country 's leaders to heart and sought development partnerships rather than landmark properties . critics say 0 mitsubishi estate 's decision to buy into rockefeller reflects the degree to which companies are irritated by the pressure to act for the good of japan . `` those who have no money and are n't buying think 0 it 's right to refrain , but those with money who want to buy for themselves pay no attention , '' says an official of the japan-u.s . business council . but to mitsubishi estate , the acquisition has just the elements that should win support from both sides . first of all , it is a friendly acquisition in which rockefeller sought out mitsubishi estate and asked it to buy a majority share . secondly , the two companies found a similarity in their business and development philosophies and intend to cooperate in a range of activities from real estate to telecommunications . finally , mitsubishi estate has no plans to interfere with rockefeller 's management beyond taking a place on the board . `` we 'll continue to work with them , in keeping with the reputation of the company , and we 'll rely very much on their leadership , '' says mitsubishi estate president jotaro takagi . rockefeller may well have found its match in mitsubishi estate , a company of long history , strong government ties and sound resources . in asset terms , mitsubishi estate is the largest real estate firm in japan . the core of its holdings is 190,000 square meters of incredibly expensive property in the marunouchi district , the business and financial center of tokyo , often jokingly called `` mitsubishi village . '' the mitsubishi family company acquired that property from the government some 100 years ago when it was a portion of samurai residential land running from the moat of the imperial palace east toward the hodgepodge of tiny shops and twisted alleys that made up the merchants ' district . at the time , japan had just opened its doors to the world after about 250 years of isolation and needed a western-style business center . mitsubishi built the government 's dream development , the story goes 0 , in exchange for the official decision to locate tokyo 's central railway station there . that was just an early step in a relationship with government that has earned the mitsubishi group the dubious moniker of `` seisho , '' literally government-business , a title that has the pejorative connotation of doing the government 's bidding , but also suggests the clout inherent in maintaining such close ties . mitsubishi estate is one of the dozens of companies in today 's mitsubishi group . it 's known for its cautiousness in part because it has had little need for bold overseas ventures : in the year ended march 31 , 57.4 % of its total revenue came from office building management . its earnings can rise 10 % to 12 % annually simply from the natural turnover of tenants and automatic rent increases , says 0 graeme mcdonald , an industry analyst at james capel pacific ltd . for the latest fiscal year , the company 's net income jumped a robust 19 % to 35.5 billion yen -lrb- $ 250.2 million -rrb- . for mitsubishi estate , the rockefeller purchase will catapult it firmly into the overseas real estate business , the one area where it has lagged notably behind japanese competitors such as mitsui , which had purchased the exxon building . `` japanese companies need to invest in overseas real estate for diversification , '' says 0 yoshio shima , an industry analyst at goldman sachs -lrb- japan -rrb- corp . rockefeller is n't the first overseas purchase for mitsubishi estate -- it has already played a leading role in designing los angeles 's citicorp plaza . but the rockefeller investment is its largest . nonetheless , it will barely make a dent in mitsubishi estate 's finances , analysts say 0 . mitsubishi estate has n't decided how it will raise the funds for the purchase , which are due in cash next april , but the marunouchi holdings alone are estimated to have a market value of as much as 10 trillion yen to 11 trillion yen . moreover , as a member of the mitsubishi group , which is headed by one of japan 's largest banks , it is sure to win a favorable loan . analysts say 0 the company also could easily issue new convertible bonds or warrants . meanwhile , at home , mitsubishi has control of some major projects . it is the largest private-sector landowner of the minato-mirai 21 project , a multibillion-yen development in the port city of yokohama , about an hour outside tokyo . the project is one of a select group of public projects opened to u.s. firms under a u.s.-japan construction trade agreement reached last year . the centerpiece of that complex , the landmark tower , will be japan 's tallest building when it is completed in 1993 . mitsubishi is also pushing ahead with a controversial plan to redevelop marunouchi into a business center of high-tech buildings , a project budgeted for 30 years and six trillion yen .