industrial production declined 0.1 % in september , reinforcing other signs that the manufacturing sector continues its slowing trend . the federal reserve board said 0 output of the nation 's factories , mines and utilities expanded at an annual rate of 1.3 % in the third quarter , substantially slower than the 3.3 % annual rate in the second quarter . `` capital spending and exports , which have been the driving force in this expansion , are showing clear signs of having the steam taken out of them , '' said robert dederick , economist for northern trust co. in chicago . the new reports of sluggishness , which were foreshadowed by an earlier labor department report that manufacturing payrolls dropped by 105,000 in september , give the fed another reason to further ease its grip on credit and lower interest rates . `` they need to do something about this , '' said maury harris , economist at painewebber group inc . the fed also said 0 u.s. industry operated at 83.6 % of capacity last month , down from 83.8 % in august . measures of manufacturing activity fell more than the overall measures . factory output dropped 0.2 % , its first decline since february , after having been unchanged in october . factories operated at 83.7 % of capacity , the lowest rate in more than a year and down from 84.1 % in september . the declines mainly reflected widespread weakness in durable goods , those intended to last more than three years . the biggest drop was recorded by primary metals producers , a category that includes the steel industry . output of business equipment was unchanged in september . production of factory equipment , one indication of the strength of manufacturers ' investment spending , fell 0.3 % . some economists expect further declines in investment spending . `` whenever corporate profits are weak that means 0 capital spending is going to soften subsequently , '' mr. harris said . `` you have n't seen the full effect of that yet . '' a decline in truck production more than offset a sharp rise in auto assemblies , the fed noted 0 . analysts do n't expect the september surge in auto production to be repeated in the coming months . here is a summary of the federal reserve board 's report on industrial production in september . the figures are seasonally adjusted . 142.3 % of the 1977 average .