in an age of specialization , the federal judiciary is one of the last bastions of the generalist . a judge must jump from murder to antitrust cases , from arson to securities fraud , without missing a beat . but even on the federal bench , specialization is creeping in , and it has become a subject of sharp controversy on the newest federal appeals court . the court of appeals for the federal circuit was created in 1982 to serve , among other things , as the court of last resort for most patent disputes . previously , patent cases moved through the court system to one of the 12 circuit appeals courts . there , judges who saw few such cases and had no experience in the field grappled with some of the most technical and complex disputes imaginable . a new specialty court was sought by patent experts , who believed that the generalists had botched too many important , multimillion-dollar cases . some patent lawyers had hoped that such a specialty court would be filled with experts in the field . but the reagan administration thought otherwise , and so may the bush administration . since 1984 , the president has filled four vacancies in the federal circuit court with non-patent lawyers . now only three of the 12 judges -- pauline newman , chief judge howard t. markey , 68 , and giles rich , 85 -- have patent-law backgrounds . the latter two and judge daniel m. friedman , 73 , are approaching senior status or retirement . three seats currently are vacant and three others are likely to be filled within a few years , so patent lawyers and research-based industries are making a new push for specialists 0 to be added to the court . several organizations , including the industrial biotechnical association and the pharmaceutical manufacturers association , have asked the white house and justice department to name candidates with both patent and scientific backgrounds . the associations would like the court to include between three and six judges with specialized training . some of the associations have recommended dr. alan d. lourie , 54 , a former patent agent with a doctorate in organic chemistry who now is associate general counsel with smithkline beckman corp. in philadelphia . dr. lourie says 0 the justice department interviewed him last july . their effort has received a lukewarm response from the justice department . `` we do not feel that seats are reserved -lrb- for patent lawyers -rrb- , '' says justice spokesman david runkel , who declines to say how soon a candidate will be named . `` but we will take it into consideration . '' the justice department 's view is shared by other lawyers and at least one member of the court , judge h. robert mayer , a former civil litigator who served at the claims court trial level before he was appointed to the federal circuit two years ago . `` i believe that any good lawyer should be able to figure out and understand patent law , '' judge mayer says , adding that `` it 's the responsibility of highly paid lawyers -lrb- who argue before the court -rrb- to make us understand -lrb- complex patent litigation -rrb- . '' yet some lawyers point to eli lilly & co. vs. medtronic , inc. , the patent infringement case 0 the supreme court this month agreed to review , as an example of poor legal reasoning by judges who lack patent litigation experience . -lrb- judge mayer was not on the three-member panel . -rrb- in the lilly case , the appeals court broadly construed a federal statute to grant medtronic , a medical device manufacturer , an exemption 0 to infringe a patent under certain circumstances . if the supreme court holds in medtronic 's favor , the decision will have billion-dollar consequences for the manufacturers of medical devices , color and food additives and all other non-drug products that required food & drug administration approval . lisa raines , a lawyer and director of government relations for the industrial biotechnical association , contends that a judge well-versed in patent law and the concerns of research-based industries would have ruled otherwise . and judge newman , a former patent lawyer , wrote in her dissent when the court denied a motion for a rehearing of the case by the full court , `` the panel 's judicial legislation has affected an important high-technological industry , without regard to the consequences for research and innovation or the public interest . '' says ms. raines , `` -lrb- the judgment -rrb- confirms our concern that the absence of patent lawyers on the court could prove troublesome .