conservatives have an important decision 0 to make this fall . at the recent meetings of the world bank and international monetary fund , the bush administration announced its intention to decide by yearend the size of the next increase in the imf 's capital base . while the u.s. share of the increase probably will not reach the $ 12 billion or more implicit in the imf 's request for a doubling of its $ 90 billion capital , the administration probably will agree to a multibillion-dollar increase . this would be consistent with its unwavering support for the brady plan and g-7 exchange-rate intervention , and with its financial commitment to mexico , poland and others . the imf has several reasons for requesting the increase . its role in the economies of developing countries has grown steadily since the 1970s . the size and pace of disbursements will accelerate further under the brady plan , which promises larger and earlier disbursements to approved countries . at least three other factors have encouraged the imf to insist on increased capital . first , it argues that its capital base must be increased in order to maintain its size relative to world financial markets , for which it feels some responsibility . second , the world bank 's recent $ 75 billion capital increase -- $ 14 billion from the u.s. -- has left the imf feeling less than first fiddle among international financial institutions . third , the imf would like to meet japan 's request for increased ownership -lrb- currently 4.5 % -rrb- . japan has supported a larger role for the imf in developing-country debt issues , and is an important financial resource for imf-guided programs in developing countries . while international politics may argue for the capital increase , there is a clear economic case against it . opponents of the increase argue that the imf practices central planning while supporting ineffective governments . they question whether the imf has any role in developing countries , given its original mandate to assist industrial countries in balance-of-payments emergencies . opponents show that there are already more funds available than commendable reform efforts . they worry that new imf funding of developing countries will simply end up substituting imf debt for reschedulable commercial bank debt , a bad trade all around . they believe 0 microeconomics , which addresses the problems of markets , investment climate and management practices , is the key to developing-country growth , not the imf 's keynesian focus on trade deficits , quarterly targets and government debt . they point at the numerous developing-country governments that have inflated , taxed and regulated themselves into despair under successive imf programs . decisions on increases in the imf 's capital base traditionally are made by the administration , with subsequent authorization by congress . the last u.s. congressional authorization , in 1983 , was a political donnybrook and carried a $ 6 billion housing program along with it to secure adequate votes . the politics of the 1990 congressional authorization are likely to be similar to those of previous authorizations . liberals may support the stabilizing , quasi-governmental role of the imf on two conditions : that the administration give assurances that liberal democrats ' support will not be used against them in congressional re-election campaigns ; and that the legislation address -- with dollars -- social and environmental concerns . conservative republicans will be given the choice of supporting or fighting their party 's popular president in an election year . a u.s. decision to refuse the imf its capital increase , or limit it to 25 % , would bring a major change in international economic policy , and could not be taken lightly . commentators would fret over the implications for the g-7 coordination process and the stability of world financial markets . because commercial banks and the developing-country governments believe 0 they will get a piece of any capital increase , a scaled-down imf mission would leave both feeling shortchanged . furthermore , a u.s. rejection of the capital increase -lrb- and transfer of shares to japan -rrb- would give japan an argument against future calls for economic burden-sharing . on the other hand , a decision to increase the imf 's capital would reinforce the central economic role of multilateral institutions in developing countries . with the increase , even more developing-country energy and talent would be diverted from creating profitable economic systems to setting up economic planning ministries that generate imf-approved economic plans . upping the ante could slow economic development even further , as countries delay market-opening steps in anticipation of richer multilateral support . conservatives should take a position prior to the administration 's year-end deadline . the issues are too important to be left to the financial and budget ministries fighting over the size of the capital increase , rather than its purpose . if conservatives do n't support an increase in the imf 's capital , then it is incumbent on them to speak up now and explain the alternative . mr. malpass directs the republican staff of the joint economic committee of congress .