world sugar futures prices soared on rumors that brazil , a major grower and exporter , might not ship sugar this crop year and next . prices also were boosted by another rumor that mexico , usually a large producer and exporter , might have to buy a large quantity of sugar . although traders rushed to buy futures contracts , many remained skeptical about the brazilian development , which could n't be confirmed , analysts said 0 . the march and may contracts rose to fresh life-of-contract highs of 14.54 cents and 14.28 cents at their best levels of the day . the march delivery , which has no limits , settled at 14.53 cents , up 0.56 cent a pound . the may contract , which also is without restraints , ended with a gain of 0.54 cent to 14.26 cents . the july delivery rose its daily permissible limit of 0.50 cent a pound to 14.00 cents , while other contract months showed near-limit advances . according to reports carried by various news services , the brazilian government told its sugar producers that they wo n't be allowed to export sugar during the current 1989-90 season , which began may 1 , and the 1990-91 season so that it can be used to produce alcohol for automobile fuel . one analyst , arthur stevenson , of prudential-bache securities , new york , estimated that 65 % or more of brazil 's newly made automobiles run on alcohol and ca n't use gasoline . `` this is a demand that must be met , regardless of the price of oil , '' said mr. stevenson . brazil is the third-largest producer and the fifth-largest exporter of sugar in the world . a shift to producing more alcohol and less sugar had been expected , but the latest news , if true , indicates a more drastic shift 0 than had been anticipated . during the current crop year , brazil was expected to produce 6.9 million tons of sugar , a drop from 8.1 million tons in 1988-89 . its 1989-90 exports were expected to total 645,000 tons in contrast to shipments of 1.5 million tons in `` it is these 645,000 tons that are in question for this crop year , '' explained judith ganes , analyst for shearson lehman hutton , new york . `` producers were granted the right earlier this year to ship sugar and the export licenses were expected to have begun to be issued '' yesterday . as a result , ms. ganes said 0 , it is believed that little or no sugar from the 1989-90 crop has been shipped yet , even though the crop year is six months old . more than a half of all sugar produced in brazil goes for alcohol production , according to ms. ganes . also , there has been a switch in the past decade to planting of orange trees in areas that were previously used for cane , and this change is being felt now , she said 0 . most important , ms. ganes noted 0 , `` brazilian officials said that no decision has as yet been made on the suspension of exports . '' thomas oxnard , sugar analyst for painewebber in hackensack , n.j. , said : `` i am highly skeptical that brazil will curtail sugar exports , particularly with the price of sugar at over 14 cents a pound . '' above all , mr. oxnard noted 0 , the situation is extremely confused . `` professional sugar people here who have strong contacts with the brazilian sugar industry have been unable to confirm the reports or get enough information 0 to clarify the situation , '' he said . `` it 's the type of nervous atmosphere in which a report can be put out , such as the one saying 0 exports will be suspended , and no one can confirm it . '' mr. oxnard observed that the situation in brazil is also very complicated . on the one hand , brazil started an ethanol program about 15 years ago to fuel a huge portion of its national fleet of cars and is now committed to this program . `` it has to weigh , on the other hand , the relatively high price of sugar 0 it can earn on the export market in making decisions as to whether to produce sugar or alcohol , '' mr. oxnard said . mexico , which is normally a sugar exporter , has had production problems in the past two years , analysts said 0 . last year , it had to buy sugar on the world market to meet export commitments , they noted 0 . this year it is expected to be a net importer and is said to be seeking to buy about 200,000 tons of sugar to meet internal needs , analysts said 0 . in other commodity markets yesterday : energy : petroleum futures were generally higher with heating oil leading the way . on the new york mercantile exchange , heating oil for december delivery increased 1.25 cents to settle at 60.36 cents a gallon . gasoline futures were mixed to unchanged . but the strength in heating oil helped push up crude oil . west texas intermediate crude for december delivery rose 13 cents a barrel to settle at $ 20.07 . the firmness in heating oil was attributed to colder weather in parts of the u.s. and to the latest weekly report by the american petroleum institute , which showed a decline in inventories of the fuel . grains and soybeans : prices closed mostly higher in relatively light trading as farmers continued to withhold their crops from the marketplace in the hope of higher prices 0 to come . trading was muted in part because of the observance of all saints ' day across much of europe . continued export demand also supported prices . as an indicator of the tight grain supply situation in the u.s. , market analysts said that late tuesday the chinese government , which often buys u.s. grains in quantity , turned instead to britain to buy 500,000 metric tons of wheat . traders said 0 prices also were supported by widespread rumors that the soviet union is on the verge of receiving most favored nation status from the u.s. . that designation would , among other things , provide more generous credit terms under which the soviets could purchase grain . the soviets are widely believed to need additional supplies , despite running up record one-month purchases of 310 million bushels of corn in october . copper : futures prices rose , extending tuesday 's gains . the december contract advanced 2.50 cents a pound to $ 1.1650 . buying for the most part carried over from the previous session , and traders apparently ignored reports that a chilean mine strike may have ended almost before it began , an analyst said 0 . according to news service reports , most workers at the disputado mines owned by exxon corp. agreed to a new two-year wage contract that includes a 5 % increase and other benefits . however , some workers have n't yet accepted the new contract and are continuing negotiations , the analyst said 0 . separately , reuter reported that the papua-new guinea government urged its parliament to extend a state of emergency in copper-rich bougainville island for two months . the bougainville copper mine has been inoperative since may 15 because of attacks by native landowners who want bougainville to secede from papua-new guinea .