-lrb- during its centennial year , the wall street journal will report events of the past century that stand as milestones of american business history . -rrb- tax shelters called individual retirement accounts , or `` iras , '' were created without fanfare on sept. 2 , 1974 , but grew beyond expectations as an inducement to personal saving . that labor day , in his first major act after succeeding the resigned richard nixon as president , gerald r. ford signed the employee retirement income security act . pension reform was its main thrust . labor and business leaders , quoted at the white house rose garden rites , hailed its provisions for insuring corporate pension benefits . iras were like stepchildren there . the ira 's conception is murky . in 1972 , then treasury secretary george shultz , with the key support of sen. carl curtis , sought some form of pensions for the uncovered . that year a four-man group headed by william lieber in the legislation and regulations division of the office of the chief counsel for the internal revenue service , was assigned the task of designing a plan . they used the 1962 keogh plan , a pension plan created by a new york congressman for the self-employed , as a partial model . this team initially called its new model personal retirement account , or `` pra . '' but it did n't sing . so they opted for ira , naming it after ira cohen , a brilliant irs actuary who helped them . ira , himself , confirms this account . ira rules have been changed over the years . one in 1981 raised to $ 2,000 a year from $ 1,500 the amount 0 a person could put , tax-deductible , into the tax-deferred accounts and widened coverage to people under employer retirement plans . this caused an explosion of ira promotions by brokers , banks , mutual funds and others . but in 1986 congress sharply reduced the number of people who could qualify for its benefits and ira tax-deductions slowed their roaring growth . ira account assets have grown to about $ 400 billion from $ 393 billion last year and just $ 26 billion in 1981 .