american medical international inc. said 0 it has n't received any other offers to acquire the owner and operator of hospitals , and took another step toward completion of its $ 3 billion acquisition by ima holdings corp . earlier this month ima , an investment group that includes chicago 's pritzker family and first boston corp. , submitted a reduced bid for american medical after it could n't finance its initial offer . under the new offer , ima will pay $ 26.50 a share for 63 million shares , or about 86 % of the shares outstanding . ima also will assume $ 1.4 billion in debt . yesterday , in composite trading on the new york stock exchange , ami common closed at $ 23.625 , up 12.5 cents , on volume of almost 1.8 million . earlier , american medical said 0 it had been approached again by two other possible suitors , whom it would n't identify but who had previously submitted bids for the company . yesterday , american medical said that the two other parties told the company that they do n't have any current intention of making a takeover bid . american medical said 0 its directors have approved what is , in effect , a draft of a solvency opinion on the acquisition , submitted by the los angeles-based investment banking and evaluation consulting firm of houlian lokey howard & zukin inc . a final opinion must be approved prior to the acceptance of tendered shares for payment under the offer , which was due to expire at 12:01 a.m. edt today . separately , moody 's investors service inc. downgraded the ratings of american medical 's senior and subordinated debt issues and those of its international affiliate . the downgrade anticipates completion of the ima holdings acquisition today , moody 's said 0 . the ratings concern said 0 the acquisition should result in pretax losses from operations because of increases in interest expense and charges for depreciation and amortization , but that it expects the losses to be reduced through productivity gains and above average growth of the company 's hospitals . moody 's said 0 the ratings anticipate a successful debt-reduction program and modest improvement in discretionary cash flow because of planned asset sales . moody 's changes affected the following issues : american medical international : senior notes , sinking-fund debentures , euromarket notes , eurobonds , swiss franc bonds , unsecured loan stock to ba3 from baa2 ; convertible subordinated debentures , notes , and sinking-fund debentures to b2 from baa3 . american medical international n.v. : guaranteed euroissues to ba3 from baa2 . an american medical spokeswoman said 0 the moody 's downgrading was expected because of the nature of the takeover .