stock-market tremors again shook bond prices , while the dollar turned in a mixed performance . early yesterday , investors scrambled to buy treasury bonds for safety as stock prices plummeted and fears mounted of a replay of friday . but stocks later recovered , erasing most of their early declines . that cut short the rally in treasury bonds and depressed prices moderately below late monday 's levels . the dow jones industrial average , down more than 60.25 points early in the day , finished 18.65 points lower at 2638.73 . long-term treasury issues declined about half a point , or $ 5 for each $ 1,000 face amount . `` the stock market clearly is leading the bond markets , '' said jack conlon , an executive vice president at nikko securities . `` people are breathing a major sigh of relief that the world did n't end monday morning '' or yesterday . gold , a closely watched barometer of investor anxiety , was little changed . the dollar initially fell against other major currencies on news that the u.s. trade deficit surged in august to $ 10.77 billion . but the dollar later rebounded , finishing slightly higher against the yen although slightly lower against the mark . federal reserve officials sent another signal of their determination to shore up investor confidence . in an apparent attempt to keep a lid on short-term interest rates , the fed once again pumped money into the banking system . but the fed move was a small gesture , traders said 0 . fed officials appear reluctant to ease their credit grip any further because a bold move does n't appear necessary , several investment managers said 0 . the fed has allowed a key short-term interest rate to decline about one-quarter percentage point . the federal funds rate on overnight loans between banks has been hovering around 8 3\/4 % , down from 9 % previously . although stocks have led bonds this week , some traders predict 0 that relationship will reverse during the next few weeks . nikko 's mr. conlon fears 0 a huge wave of treasury borrowing early next month will drive down treasury bond prices . that , coupled with poor third-quarter corporate-earnings comparisons , `` will make trouble for the equity market for the next two to three months , '' he says 0 . but several other traders contend 0 investors have overreacted to junk-bond jitters , and that stock prices will continue to recover . `` they shot the whole orchestra just because the piano player hit a bad note , '' said laszlo birinyi , president of birinyi associates inc. , referring to the stock market 's plunge friday on news of trouble in financing the ual corp . buy-out . in major market activity : treasury bond prices fell . the yield on 30-year treasury bonds climbed back above 8 % , ending the day at 8.03 % . the dollar was mixed . late yesterday in new york , the dollar rose to 142.75 yen from 141.80 yen monday , but fell to 1.8667 marks from 1.8685 marks .