the surprise resignation yesterday of british chancellor of the exchequer nigel lawson sent sterling into a tailspin against the dollar by creating uncertainties about the direction of the british economy . the u.s. unit also firmed against other currencies on the back of sterling 's tumble , as market participants switched out of pounds . the pound also dropped precipitously against the mark , falling below the key 2.90-mark level to 2.8956 marks from 2.9622 marks late wednesday . mr. lawson 's resignation shocked many analysts , despite the recent recurring speculation of a rift between the chancellor and prime minister margaret thatcher . indeed , only hours earlier , mrs. thatcher had called mr. lawson 's economic policies `` sound '' and said 0 she has `` always supported '' him . `` there was a general feeling that we 'd seen the worst , '' said patrick foley , deputy chief economic adviser for lloyds bank in london . `` the resignation came as a great surprise . '' graham beale , manager of foreign-exchange operations at hong kong & shanghai banking corp. in new york , added that mrs. thatcher 's comments reinforced the market 's growing confidence about sterling and compounded the unit 's later decline . `` the market was caught totally the wrong way ... . everyone was extremely long on sterling , '' mr. beale said . in late new york trading yesterday , the dollar was quoted at 1.8400 marks , up from 1.8353 marks late wednesday , and at 142.10 yen , up from 141.52 yen late wednesday . sterling was quoted at $ 1.5765 , sharply down from $ 1.6145 late wednesday . in tokyo friday , the u.s. currency opened for trading at 142.02 yen , up from thursday 's tokyo close of 141.90 yen . few analysts had much good 0 to say about the pound 's near-term prospects , despite the fact that most do n't anticipate a shift in mrs. thatcher 's economic policies . mr. foley of lloyds noted that mr. lawson 's replacement , john major , the british foreign minister , will take time 0 to establish his credibility and , in the meantime , sterling could trend downward in volatile trade . but mr. foley predicted few economic policy changes ahead , commenting that mr. major shares `` a very similar view of the world '' with mr. lawson . bob chandross , chief economist at lloyds bank in new york , also noted that the pound 's sharp decline is pegged more to uncertainty in the market than a vision of altered united kingdom economic policies . unless mr. lawson 's resignation leads to a change in british interest-rate policy -- mrs. thatcher 's administration firmly supports high interest rates to keep inflation in check -- or posturing toward full inclusion in the european monetary system 's exchange-rate mechanism , mr. lawson 's withdrawal will have little long-term impact on exchange rates , mr. chandross concluded 0 . also announcing his resignation thursday was alan walters , mrs. thatcher 's economic adviser and mr. lawson 's nemesis . the pound , which had been trading at about $ 1.6143 in new york prior to mr. lawson 's announcement , sank more than two cents to $ 1.5930 , prompting the federal reserve bank to buy pounds for dollars . the fed 's move , however , only proved a stopgap to the pound 's slide and the fed intervened for a second time at around $ 1.5825 , according to new york traders . meanwhile , dollar trading was relatively uninspired throughout the session , according to dealers , who noted that thursday 's release of the preliminary report on the u.s. third-quarter gross national product was something of a nonevent . u.s. gnp rose at an annual rate of 2.5 % in the third quarter . the implicit price deflator , a measure of inflation , was down to a 2.9 % annual rate of increase in the quarter from a 4.6 % rate of gain in the second quarter . in europe , the dollar ended lower in dull trading . the market closed prior to mr. lawson 's announcement . on the commodity exchange in new york , gold for current delivery rose $ 3.40 to $ 372.50 an ounce in heavy trading . the close was the highest since august 3 . estimated volume was five million ounces . in early trading in hong kong friday , gold was quoted at $ 370.85 an ounce .