some house democrats are trying to head off an appointment by president bush to the board that oversees the savings-and-loan bailout , contending that the prospective nominee is the head of troubled banks himself . four democrats on the house banking committee sent president bush a letter stating their concerns about the expected appointment of james simmons , an arizona banker and former fund-raiser for mr. bush , to the oversight board of the resolution trust corp . the oversight board , created in the savings-and-loan law signed in august , sets policy for the rtc , which will sell hundreds of the nation 's sick thrifts and billions of dollars of their assets . treasury secretary nicholas brady , federal reserve board chairman alan greenspan and housing and urban development secretary jack kemp are members of the board . president bush must appoint two other members , one a democrat and one a republican . an administration official confirmed last week that mr. simmons , the chairman of valley national bank in phoenix , is the republican appointee , and that a security clearance was under way . the democratic appointee has n't been determined , the official said 0 . mr. simmons declined to comment , and the white house said 0 the congressmen 's letter is under review . the letter , dated last thursday , cited the losses at valley national , and at united bank , also of phoenix , where mr. simmons was chairman for 29 years . both banks have been battered , as have other arizona banks , by falling real estate prices . valley national , for example , had $ 470 million in problem assets as of june . `` we believe that there are numerous other candidates more qualified for this important position and we encourage you to give them your thorough consideration before making this key rtc appointment , '' the letter said . `` the rtc needs the most able , competent management available . '' but mr. simmons has long ties to both republicans and banking . he was co-chairman of mr. bush 's arizona campaign committee in last year 's election , and also worked for mr. bush in the 1980 election . the two met more than 30 years ago , when mr. simmons worked for commercial bank & trust co. of midland , texas , where mr. bush was an organizing director . in 1986 , mr. simmons also served on a committee of businessmen headed by william seidman , chairman of the federal deposit insurance corp. and the resolution trust corp . that committee determined to open arizona to banking across state lines . arizona trend magazine referred to mr. simmons this year as one of the 25 most influential people in the state . the letter to mr. bush was signed by reps. bruce vento -lrb- d. , minn. -rrb- , the chairman of the banking committee 's rtc task force , thomas mcmillen -lrb- d. , md. -rrb- , kweisi mfume -lrb- d. , md . -rrb- and paul kanjorski -lrb- d. , pa . -rrb- .