southam inc. said 0 its unprofitable weekly newspaper , the financial times of canada , is up for sale . analysts said 0 the announcement , the latest in a series of divestitures and restructuring moves , is aimed at improving southam 's earnings before the expiration in june of a standstill pact with torstar corp . when that agreement expires , torstar will be free to increase its 22.4 % stake in southam , or to make an offer for the whole company . descendants of the southam family hold an additional 22.6 % stake in the toronto-based company , canada 's largest newspaper publisher . the newspaper could fetch between 15 million and 20 million canadian dollars -lrb- us$ 12.8 million to $ 17.1 million -rrb- , said 0 one analyst , who asked not to be identified . a spokesman for southam declined to comment on the price 0 the company is seeking or on estimates of the paper 's annual losses , which most analysts place at between c$ 4 million and c$ 7 million . yesterday , southam reported third-quarter earnings of c$ 10.8 million on revenue of c$ 395.4 million , down from c$ 14.6 million on revenue of c$ 389.6 million in the year-ago quarter . `` to be profitable , the paper requires more circulation and building circulation is an expensive undertaking , '' said john macfarlane , the paper 's publisher . southam said 0 the level of future investment required by the paper would have restricted its options in other areas . the acquisition of the financial times of canada is `` well within reach for any number of media companies , both public and private , '' said james cole , an analyst with toronto-based bbn james capel inc . possible bidders include christopher ondaatje , a toronto financier and vice chairman of hees international bancorp inc. , a holding company controlled by toronto 's bronfman family . mr. ondaatje sold his stake in pagurian corp. to hees earlier this year and is said to be seeking a media acquisition . mr. ondaatje could n't be reached for comment , but roy mac-laren , chairman of cb media , a closely held concern that publishes two business magazines , said 0 his company would take a close look at the newspaper . mr. cole said 0 the sale of the 77-year financial times , which southam has owned since 1961 , is consistent with southam 's strategy of cutting costs to obtain maximum profits from its operations while disposing of `` chronically under-performing '' assets . southam agreed to sell its 47 % stake in selkirk communications ltd. , a broadcasting concern , to maclean hunter ltd. for about c$ 285 million last year . this year , it has moved to cut costs in its newspaper division through layoffs and asset sales , while reaching joint venture and acquisition agreements in other areas . the financial times of canada has no links to the british daily newspaper , the financial times .