when james schwartz was just a lad his father gave him a piece of career advice . `` he told me to choose an area where just by being mediocre i could be great , '' recalls mr. schwartz , now 40 . he tried management consulting , traded in turquoise for a while , and even managed professional wrestlers . now he has settled into a career that fits the bill -- financial planning . it should be noted that mr. schwartz , who operates out of englewood , colo. , is a puckish sort who likes to give his colleagues the needle . but in this case the needle has a very sharp point . though it 's probably safe to assume that the majority of financial planners are honest and even reasonably competent , the fact remains that , as one wag puts it , `` anybody who can fog a mirror '' can call himself a financial planner . planners now influence the investment of several hundred billion dollars , but in effect they operate in the dark . there is no effective regulation of planners , no accepted standard for admission into their ranks -- a dog got into one trade group -- no way 0 to assess their performance , no way even 0 to know how many of them there are -lrb- estimates range from 60,000 to 450,000 -rrb- . all 0 anyone need do is hang up a shingle and start planning . so it should come as no shock that the profession , if that 's what it is , has attracted a lot of people whose principal talents seem to be frittering away or flat-out stealing their clients ' money . alarmed , state and federal authorities are trying to devise ways 0 to certify and regulate planners . industry groups and reputable planners who are members of them want comprehensive standards , too ; they 're tired of seeing practitioners depicted collectively in the business press as dumber than chimpanzees and greedier than a herd of swine . but reform has n't taken hold yet . `` the industry is still pretty much in its wild west days , '' says scott stapf , director of investor education for the north american securities administrators association . an admittedly limited survey by nasaa , whose members are state securities-law regulators , found that between 1986 and 1988 `` fraud and abuse '' by financial planners cost 22,000 investors $ 400 million . the rogues ' gallery of planners involved includes some convicted felons , a compulsive gambler or two , various businessmen who had planned their own previous ventures right into bankruptcy , and one man who scammed his wife 's grandmother . what 's more , the losses 0 they and the others caused `` are just what we are stumbling over , '' says 0 mr. stapf , adding that the majority of misdeeds probably go undetected . so do just about all the losses that could be attributed to the sheer incompetence of unqualified planners . nobody can estimate the toll , but john gargan , a tampa , fla. , planner and head of one trade group , the international association of registered financial planners , thinks 0 the danger to investors from incompetence is `` humongous , '' far greater than that from crookery . his group , like others , wants minimum standards applied to all who call themselves financial planners . surveying all this , some people now think 0 the best planner might be no planner at all . for most investors `` the benefits just are n't worth the risks , '' says 0 barbara roper , who follows financial-planning issues for the consumer federation of america , a consumer-advocacy organization based in washington . she concedes that such a position is `` unfair '' to the thousands of conscientious and qualified people plying the trade , but as a consumer advocate she feels impelled to take it . she says 0 her group used to give tips on selecting planners -- check educational and experience credentials , consult regulators and better business bureaus -- but found that even some people who took these steps `` were still getting ripped off . '' the bad news , however , has n't been bad enough to kill the growing demand for financial planning . the tax reform act of 1986 , which eliminated many tax shelters peddled by planners , and the stock market crash the next year did cause a sharp slump in such demand , and many planners had to make an unplanned exit from the business . but membership in the international association of financial planners -lrb- iafp -rrb- , the industry 's biggest trade group , is still nearly triple what it was in 1980 , and it 's believed that the ranks of planners who do n't belong to any group have soared as well . an estimated 10 million americans are now using financial planners , and the pool of capital 0 they influence is enormous . a survey of 54,000 of them conducted by the iafp in april showed that these practitioners alone had controlled or guided the investment of $ 154 billion of their clients ' money in the previous 12 months . the sheer number of planners makes the business extremely difficult , if not impossible , 0 to regulate . even the minority of them who must register with the securities and exchange commission as `` investment advisers '' -- people who are in the business of counseling others on the buying and selling of securities specifically -- have been enough to swamp the agency 's capacity . the sec has only about 200 staffers assigned to keep tabs on investment advisers -- about the same as in 1980 -- even though the number of advisers has tripled to about 15,000 over the past decade . currently , a registered investment adviser can expect an sec audit only once every 12 years . a lot of bad things can happen in 12 years . `` it does n't take a rocket scientist to figure out our problem , '' says kathryn mcgrath , director of the sec 's division of investment management . so the sec has proposed to congress that much of the job of oversight be turned over to an industry-funded , self-regulatory organization patterned on the national association of securities dealers , which operates in the brokerage business . such an organization could , among other things , set minimum standards for competence , ethics and finances and punish those investment advisers who broke the rules . the proposal has set off a lively debate within an industry that was far from united to begin with . mr. schwartz , the puckish planner from englewood , colo. , says that allowing the business to police itself would be `` like putting dracula in charge of the blood bank . '' mr. gargan , the tampa planner who heads one trade group , favors simply assessing the industry and giving the money to the sec to hire more staff . -lrb- mr. gargan 's views are not greeted with wild enthusiasm over at the iafp , the major industry organization . when the iafp recently assembled other industry groups to discuss common standards that might be applied to planners , mr. gargan 's group was excluded . that may be because mr. gargan , smarting at what he considered slurs on his membership standards made by the rival group , enrolled his dog , beauregard , as a member of the iafp . then he sent the pooch 's picture with the certificate of membership -- it was made out to `` boris ` bo ' regaard '' -- to every newspaper 0 he could think of . -rrb- the states have their own ideas about regulation and certification . nasaa , the organization of state securities regulators , is pushing for a model regulatory statute already adopted in eight states . it requires financial planners to register with states , pass competency tests and reveal to customers any conflicts of interest . the most common conflict involves compensation . nasaa estimates that nearly 90 % of planners receive some or all of their income from sales commissions on securities , insurance and other financial products 0 they recommend . the issue : is the planner putting his clients into the best investments , or the ones that garner the biggest commissions ? in 1986 the new york attorney general 's office got an order from a state court in albany shutting down first meridian corp. , an albany financial-planning firm that had invested $ 55 million on behalf of nearly 1,000 investors . in its notice of action , the attorney general said 0 the company had promised to put clients into `` balanced '' investment portfolios ; instead , the attorney general alleged 0 , the company consistently shoved unwary customers into high-risk investments in paintings , coins and florida condos . those investments paid big commissions to first meridian , payments 0 investors were never told about , the attorney general alleged 0 . investors were further assured that only those with a minimun net worth would be accepted . in practice , the attorney general alleged 0 in an affidavit , if an investor had access to cash `` the chances of being turned down by first meridian were about as probable as being rejected by the book-of-the-month club . '' and , the attorney general added 0 , first meridian 's president , roger v. sala , portrayed himself as a `` financial expert '' when his qualifications largely consisted of a high-school diploma , work as a real-estate and insurance salesman , and a stint as supervisor at a highway toll booth . first meridian and its officials are currently under investigation for possible criminal wrongdoing , according to a spokeswoman for the attorney general . harry manion , mr. sala 's attorney , says 0 his client denies any wrongdoing and adds that the attorney general 's contentions about first meridian 's business practices are incorrect . as for mr. sala 's qualifications , `` the snooty attorneys for the state of new york decided 0 mr. sala was n't qualified because he did n't have a harvard degree , '' says mr. manion . civil suits against planners by clients seeking recovery of funds are increasingly common . two such actions , both filed earlier this year in georgia state court in atlanta , could be particularly embarrassing to the industry : both name j. chandler peterson , an atlanta financial planner who is a founder and past chairman of the iafp , as defendant . one suit , filed by more than three dozen investors , charges that mr. peterson misused much of the $ 9.7 million put into a limited partnership that he operated and promoted , spending some of it to pay his own legal bills and to invest in other companies in which he had an interest . those companies , in turn , paid mr. peterson commissions and fees , the suit alleges 0 . the other suit was filed by two men in a dispute over $ 100,000 investments 0 each says 0 he made with mr. peterson as part of an effort to purchase the bank of scottsdale in scottsdale , ariz . one plaintiff , a doctor , testified in an affidavit that he also gave mr. peterson $ 50,000 0 to join a sort of investment club which essentially gave the physician `` the privilege of making additional investments '' with mr. peterson . in affidavits , each plaintiff claims 0 mr. peterson promised 0 the bank purchase would be completed by the end of 1988 or the money returned . mr. peterson took the plaintiffs ' and other investors ' money to a meeting of the bank 's directors . wearing a business suit and western-style hat and boots , he opened up his briefcase and dumped $ 1 million in cash on a table in front of the directors , says 0 myron diebel , the bank 's president . `` he said 0 he wanted to show the color of his money , '' recalls mr. diebel . bank officials , however , showed him the door , and the sale never came off . according to the suit , mr. peterson has yet to return the plaintiffs ' investment . they want it back . mr. peterson declines to comment on specific allegations in the two suits , saying 0 he prefers to save such responses for court . but he does say that all of his activities have been `` entirely proper . '' on the suit by the limited partners , he says 0 he is considering a defamation suit against the plaintiffs . the suit , he adds 0 , `` is almost in the nature of a vendetta by a handful of disgruntled people . '' rearding the suit over the bank bid , mr. peterson says 0 it is filled with `` inflammatory language and half truths . '' he declines to go into specifics . mr. peterson says 0 the suits against him are less a measure of his work than they are a `` sign of the times '' in which people generally are more prone to sue . `` i do n't know anybody in the industry who has n't experienced litigation , '' he says . mr. peterson also says 0 he does n't consider himself a financial planner anymore . he now calls himself an `` investment banker . '' in many scams or alleged scams involving planners , it 's plain that only a modicum of common sense on the part of the investors would have kept them out of harm 's way . using it , would n't a proessional hesitate to pay tens of thousands of dollars just for a chance to invest witha planner ? other cases go to show that an old saw still applies : if it sounds too good 0 to be true , it probably is . certificates of deposit do n't pay 23 % a year , for example , but that did n't give pause to clients of one alabama planner . now they 're losers and he 's in jail in mobile county . cds yielding 40 % are even more implausible -- especially when the issuing `` bank '' in the marshall islands is merely a mail drop watched over by a local gas-station operator -- but investors fell for that one too . and the colorado planner who promised to make some of his clients millionaires on investments of as litle as $ 100 ? never mind . you already know the answer . mr. emshwiller is a staff reporter in the wall street journal 's los angeles bureau .