personal spending , which fueled the economy 's growth in the third quarter , was clearly slowing by the end of the period , raising questions about the economy 's strength as the year ends . personal spending grew 0.2 % in september to a $ 3.526 trillion annual rate , the commerce department said 0 . it was the smallest monthly increase in a year . at the same time , personal income was held down by the effects of hurricane hugo , which tore through parts of north and south carolina in late september . the department said 0 personal income rose 0.3 % in september to a $ 4.469 trillion rate but would have climbed 0.6 % had it not been for the storm . among the economic effects of the hurricane was a sharp drop in rental income . the figures came a day after the government released a report showing that consumer spending propelled u.s. economic expansion in the third quarter while -- on an inflation-adjusted basis -- business investment slowed , government spending declined , and exports were flat . but the new statistics show that by september , the burst in spending seemed to be tapering off . many economists expect the weakness to continue . `` i think 0 the consumer has pretty well played himself out , '' said david littman , senior economist at manufacturers national bank of detroit . `` i do n't think 0 there 's a lot in the wings '' in other sectors of the economy 0 to keep growth above 1 % , he said . in the third quarter , the economy grew at a moderate 2.5 % annual rate . in august , personal income rose 0.3 % and spending grew 0.9 % . analysts have attributed much of the summer 's spurt in spending to bargain car prices at the end of the model year . car sales slackened in september after the 1990 models were introduced . according to the commerce department report , spending on durable goods -- items expected to last at least three years , including cars -- declined by $ 6.2 billion . the nation 's savings rate was unchanged in september at 4.9 % of after-tax income , far below the 5.6 % 0 it reached in july . all the figures are adjusted for seasonal variations . here is the commerce department 's latest report on personal income . the figures are at seasonally adjusted annual rates in trillions of dollars .