-lcb- during its centennial year , the wall street journal will report events of the past century that stand as milestones of american business history . -rcb- creative accounting , mostly by conglomerates , forced cpas to change their way of setting standards 0 to be followed by corporations reporting financial results , standards that had become all too flexible . the new financial accounting standards board -lrb- fasb -rrb- was created in 1972 to replace the accounting principles board of the american institute of certified public accountants . all of the former board 's members were cpas , provoking conflict-of-interest criticism because they were writing rules while handling clients ' books at the same time . the new board 's seven-member structure kept four cpas , but the others were from industry and academia . francis m. wheat , a former securities and exchange commission member , headed the panel that had studied the issues for a year and proposed the fasb on march 30 , 1972 . the former board had produced `` 21 opinions and 1,000 critics '' in its 12-year life , its chairman had conceded 0 . the climate was right for the new fasb . in the late 1960s some cpas failed to correct such abuses as clients picking permissive rules that hyped earnings and stock prices . and in november 1970 congress had passed a special act to overrule one board rule . also , james needham , an sec commissioner , in april 1972 had warned that the industry might face a `` federal agency writing accounting rules '' if they rejected the fasb idea . keepers of the books , dubbed `` figure filberts , '' loathed the threat . the fasb had its initial meeting on march 28 , 1973 . on dec. 13 , 1973 , it issued its first rule ; it required companies to disclose foreign currency translations in u.s. dollars . the fasb since then has issued 102 rules , and some still rile industry . since late 1987 , for example , it has put off a rule dealing with deferred income taxes because of the continuing controversy over the issue .