toni johnson pulls a tape measure across the front of what was once a stately victorian home . a deep trench now runs along its north wall , exposed when the house lurched two feet off its foundation during last week 's earthquake . a side porch was ripped away . the chimney is a pile of bricks on the front lawn . the remainder of the house leans precariously against a sturdy oak tree . the petite , 29-year-old ms. johnson , dressed in jeans and a sweatshirt as she slogs through the steady afternoon rain , is a claims adjuster with aetna life & casualty . she has been on the move almost incessantly since last thursday , when an army of adjusters , employed by major insurers , invaded the san francisco area to help policyholders sift through the rubble and restore some order to their lives . equipped with cellular telephones , laptop computers , calculators and a pack of blank checks , they parcel out money so their clients can find temporary living quarters , buy food , replace lost clothing , repair broken water heaters , and replaster walls . some of the funds will used to demolish unstable buildings and clear sites for future construction . many adjusters are authorized to write checks for amounts up to $ 100,000 on the spot . they do n't flinch at writing them . `` that 's my job -- get -lcb- policyholders -rcb- what they 're entitled to , '' says bill schaeffer , a claims supervisor who flew in from aetna 's bridgeport , conn. , office . the victorian house that ms. johnson is inspecting has been deemed unsafe by town officials . but she asks a workman toting the bricks from the lawn to give her a boost through an open first-floor window . once inside , she spends nearly four hours measuring and diagramming each room in the 80-year-old house , gathering enough information to estimate what it would cost to rebuild it . she snaps photos of the buckled floors and the plaster that has fallen away from the walls . while she works inside , a tenant returns with several friends to collect furniture and clothing . one of the friends sweeps broken dishes and shattered glass from a countertop and starts to pack what can be salvaged from the kitchen . others grab books , records , photo albums , sofas and chairs , working frantically in the fear that an aftershock will jolt the house again . the owners , william and margie hammack , are luckier than many others . a few years ago , mrs. hammack insisted on buying earthquake insurance for this house , which had been converted into apartments . only about 20 % of california home and business owners carried earthquake coverage . the hammacks ' own home , also in los gatos , suffered comparatively minor damage . ms. johnson , who works out of aetna 's office in walnut creek , an east bay suburb , is awed by the earthquake 's destructive force . `` it really brings you down to a human level , '' she says . `` it 's hard to accept all the suffering 0 people are going through , but you have to . if you do n't , you ca n't do your job . '' for aetna and other insurers , the san francisco earthquake hit when resources in the field already were stretched . most companies still are trying to sort through the wreckage caused by hurricane hugo in the carolinas last month . aetna , which has nearly 3,000 adjusters , had deployed about 750 of them in charlotte , columbia , and charleston . adjusters who had been working on the east coast say 0 the insurer will still be processing claims from that storm through december . it could take six to nine months to handle the earthquake-related claims . when the earthquake rocked northern california last week , aetna senior claims executives from the san francisco area were at the company 's hartford , conn. , headquarters for additional training on how to handle major catastrophes , including earthquakes . since commercial airline flights were disrupted , the company chartered three planes to fly these executives back to the west coast and bring along portable computers , cellular phones and some claims adjusters . because of the difficulty of assessing the damages caused by the earthquake , aetna pulled together a team of its most experienced claims adjusters from around the country . even so , few had ever dealt with an earthquake . some adjusters , like alan singer of san diego , had been working in charleston for nearly four weeks . he returned home last thursday , packed a bag with fresh clothes and reported for duty friday in walnut creek . offices were set up in san francisco and san jose . in a few instances , aetna knew 0 it would probably be shelling out big bucks , even before a client called or faxed in a claim . for example , officials at walnut creek office learned that the amfac hotel near the san francisco airport , which is insured by aetna , was badly damaged when they saw it on network television news . `` the secret to being a good adjuster is counting , '' says gerardo rodriguez , an aetna adjuster from santa ana . `` you have to count everything . '' adjusters must count the number of bathrooms , balconies , fireplaces , chimneys , microwaves and dishwashers . but they must also assign a price to each of these items as well as to floors , wallcoverings , roofing and siding , to come up with a total value for a house . to do that , they must think in terms of sheetrock by the square foot , carpeting by the square yard , wallpaper by the roll , molding by the linear foot . using a calculator and a unit-price guide for such jobs as painting , plumbing and roofing in each major region of the country , adjusters can figure out the value of a home in today 's market and what it would cost to rebuild it . sometimes repairs are out of the question . when aetna adjuster bill schaeffer visited a retired couple in oakland last thursday , he found them living in a mobile home parked in front of their yard . the house itself , located about 50 yards from the collapsed section of double-decker highway interstate 880 , was pushed about four feet off its foundation and then collapsed into its basement . the next day , mr. schaeffer presented the couple with a check for $ 151,000 to help them build a new home in the same neighborhood . he also is working with a real-estate agent to help find them an apartment 0 to rent while their home is being built . many of the adjusters employed by aetna and other insurers have some experience with construction work or carpentry . but such skills were alien to toni johnson . four years ago , she was managing a film-processing shop and was totally bored . a friend mentioned that she might want to look into a position at aetna , if she was interested in a job that would constantly challenge her . she signed up , starting as an `` inside '' adjuster , who settles minor claims and does a lot of work by phone . a year later , she moved to the commercial property claims division . she spent a month at an aetna school in gettysburg , pa. , learning all about the construction trade , including masonry , plumbing and electrical wiring . that was followed by three months at the aetna institute in hartford , where she was immersed in learning how to read and interpret policies . her new line of work has some perils . recently , a contractor saved her from falling three stories as she investigated what remained of an old victorian house torched by an arsonist . `` i owe that contractor . i really do , '' she says . as ms. johnson stands outside the hammack house after winding up her chores there , the house begins to creak and sway . the ground shakes underneath her . it is an aftershock , one of about 2,000 since the earthquake , and it makes her uneasy . the next day , as she prepares a $ 10,000 check for the hammacks , which will cover the cost of demolishing the house and clearing away the debris , she jumps at the slightest noise . on further reflection , she admits that venturing inside the hammacks ' house the previous day was n't `` such a great idea . '' during her second meeting with the hammacks , ms. johnson reviews exactly what their policy covers . they would like to retrieve some appliances on the second floor , but wonder if it 's safe to venture inside . ms. johnson tells them that , if the appliances ca n't be salvaged , their policy covers the replacement cost . mr. hammack is eager to know what aetna will pay for the house , which has to come down . `` when will i get that check for a million dollars ? '' he jokes . the adjuster had n't completed all the calculations , but says : `` we 're talking policy limits . '' in this case , that 's about $ 250,000 . it suddenly dawns on mr. hammack that rebuilding the house in los gatos , an affluent community in santa clara county , may cost more than aetna 's policy will pay . `` we can lose money on this , '' he says . `` and you did n't want me to buy earthquake insurance , '' says mrs. hammack , reaching across the table and gently tapping his hand . earthquake insurance costs about $ 2 to $ 4 annually for every $ 1,000 of value , and high deductibles mean 0 it generally pays only when there is a catastrophe . so , many californians believe 0 they can get by without it . even ms. johnson herself made that assumption . `` i always knew that the ` big one ' was coming , but not during my lifetime , '' she says . now she says 0 she 's thinking of contacting her own insurance agent . for ms. johnson , dealing with the earthquake has been more than just a work experience . she lives in oakland , a community hit hard by the earthquake . she did n't have hot water for five days . the apartment 0 she shares with a 12-year-old daughter and her sister was rattled , books and crystal hit the floor , but nothing was severely damaged . her sister , cynthia , wishes 0 toni had a different job . `` we worry about her out there , '' cynthia says . last sunday , ms. johnson finally got a chance to water her plants , but stopped abruptly . `` i realized 0 i could n't waste this water when there are people in watsonville who do n't have fresh water 0 to drink . '' she has n't played any music since the earthquake hit , out of respect for those who died on interstate 880 where the roadway collapsed .