in search of buyers for upscale department-store chains such as bloomingdale 's and saks fifth avenue , investment bankers are turning to -- who else ? the japanese . but so far japan 's cash-rich retailers are proving to be cautious shoppers . `` we have the money 0 to buy . but operating a u.s. department-store chain would be very difficult , '' says motoyuki homma , managing director of the international division at mitsukoshi ltd. , one of japan 's leading department stores . japanese retail executives say the main reason 0 they are reluctant to jump into the fray in the u.s. is that -- unlike manufacturing -- retailing is extremely sensitive to local cultures and life styles . the japanese have watched the europeans and canadians stumble in the u.s. market , and they fret that business practices that have won them huge profits at home wo n't translate into success in the u.s. . japanese department stores are also wary of attracting negative publicity . after sony corp. 's recent headline-grabbing acquisition of columbia pictures , many say 0 it makes good political sense to lie low . `` it 's a question of timing , '' says mayumi takayama , managing director of international operations at isetan co. , a tokyo department store . still , for those with a long-term eye on the vast u.s. retail market , this is a tempting time 0 to look for bargains . britain 's b.a.t industries plc is trying to unwind its u.s. retailing operations , which include such well-known stores as saks fifth avenue , marshall field 's , breuners and ivey 's . and debt-ridden campeau corp. of toronto is giving up the 17-store bloomingdale 's group . `` every department store in japan is taking a look , '' says mike allen , a retail analyst at barclay 's de zoete wedd securities -lrb- japan -rrb- ltd . mr. allen , however , does n't think that japan is about to embark on a major buying binge . nonetheless , speculation heated up yesterday when tokyu department store co. confirmed a report in nihon keizai shimbun , japan 's leading business daily , that tokyu is talking with campeau about buying bloomingdale 's . tokyu , however , said 0 no agreement had been reached . nor is tokyu the only japanese retailer interested in bloomingdale 's , which bankers in tokyo estimate 0 could cost between $ 1 billion and $ 1.5 billion . seven japanese department-store groups were approached by investment bankers representing bloomingdale 's chairman , marvin traub , and more than half are seeking additional information on the group , bankers say 0 . what mr. traub is hoping to put together , investment bankers say , is a management-led group 0 to buy the new york department-store group that he heads from campeau 's federated department stores subsidiary . federated ran into a cash crunch after it was acquired last year by campeau , which relied heavily on debt to finance the transaction . paying off that debt put such a squeeze on campeau and its stores that federated decided to sell off the jewels of its retailing empire , including bloomingdale 's . hoping to avoid another takeover , mr. traub retained blackstone group and drexel burnham lambert inc. to help him find partners for a management-led buy-out . ideally , investment bankers say 0 , he wants to get backing from a japanese department store and a european department store 0 to forge a global retailing network . `` when you look at the economics , traub needs a japanese and a european partner to make it work , '' says one investment banker who follows the retail industry . `` looking only at a narrow american strategy is n't where it 's at . '' persuading tradition-bound japanese retailers to get involved in the turmoils of the u.s. retailing industry is n't likely to be so easy , analysts say 0 . up until now , most stores have followed the same basic overseas strategy : first they set up overseas merchandising offices 0 to import items and track new fashion trends . then they opened small gift shops mostly aimed at japanese tourists . reluctant to advance further on their own , some stores have settled for tie-ups with famous specialty shops . last march , isetan invested 1.5 billion yen -lrb- $ 10.6 million -rrb- in a venture with barney 's inc. , an up-scale new york specialty clothier . the first barney 's shop is scheduled to open in japan next year . and mitsukoshi recently increased its equity stake in tiffany & co. to 13 % . through the longstanding relationship between the two companies , mitsukoshi has opened 22 tiffany shops in its stores and arcades in japan . plans are under way to open a tiffany 's in hawaii 0 to cater to japanese tourists ; it will be run mostly by mitsukoshi . some industry observers say that mitsukoshi 's classy image makes it a possible match for saks fifth avenue . company officials say 0 they are studying various proposals but wo n't discuss details . takashimaya co. , japan 's oldest department store , is another name that keeps popping up as a potential fit with saks . eiji nakazato , a takashimaya general manager , admits that his company 's image is similar to saks 's and that there is some interest in the idea . but he stops there . `` we 'd like to do business in america , '' he says . `` but it looks tough . '' marcus w. brauchli contributed to this article . compiled by william mathewson the vatican was in the red last year . it said 0 the regular 1988 deficit amounted to $ 43.5 million , based on revenue of $ 74.4 million and expenses of $ 117.9 million . but it said 0 extraordinary expenditures for its radio station and restoration of buildings increased the deficit to $ 57.2 million . a statement from the council of cardinals said 0 catholics had responded generously to an appeal last year to give more money after 1987 's record $ 63 million deficit . the statement said a 5 % jump in the `` peter 's pence '' collection -- the annual offering from catholics to the pope -- helped cover the deficit . council member cardinal gerald carter of toronto told vatican radio : `` now that we say 0 we covered our deficit this year , people are going to relax and say 0 well that 's fine , the holy see is out of the hole . but we 're ... going to be in the exact same situation next year . '' former president richard nixon is to visit china at the invitation of the government beginning saturday , the foreign ministry announced 0 . according to mr. nixon 's office , `` this is solely a fact-finding trip . there will be no sightseeing , no shopping and no social events . '' mr. nixon 's office said 0 the former president `` expects to have one-on-one discussions with the major chinese leaders '' and will give his assessment of those leaders to president bush upon his return . a poll conducted in 12 of 16 nato countries shows that the dutch appear to be the strongest supporters of the alliance . the poll , conducted for the dutch daily de telegraaf by gallup international said 0 81 % of dutch people supported nato . canada was the second most pro-nato country with 78 % supporting the alliance , followed by the u.s. with 75 % , britain with 71 % , belgium with 69 % and west germany with 63 % . all other countries registered support below 50 % . the israeli manufacturers ' association filed a police complaint against an arab pasta maker for using the four colors of the outlawed palestinian flag on spaghetti packages . `` we asked police to investigate why they are allowed to distribute the flag in this way . it should be considered against the law , '' said danny leish , a spokesman for the association . the spaghetti is made by the al ghazel macaroni co. in bethlehem and is marketed in a package decorated with green , black , red and white stripes . british postal authorities say 0 they have uncovered a large-scale scheme where unscrupulous stamp dealers chemically removed stamp cancellations , regummed the stamps and sold them to u.s. collectors or , in large lots , to british businesses . the scheme allegedly cost the post office # 10 million -lrb- $ 16.1 -rrb- in revenue in the past 12 months . dealers bought the used stamps cheaply from charities , including the guide dogs for the blind association . the charities regularly sell used stamps , which they collect from children and other donors , to raise funds . akio tanii , president of japan 's matsushita electric industrial co. , presented the u.s. consul general in osaka with a $ 1 million check 0 to help san francisco 's earthquake victims . the company 's u.s. subsidiary , matsushita electric corp. of america , had donated over $ 35,000 worth of matsushita-made flashlights and batteries to residents shortly after the disaster , a company spokesman said 0 . several other japanese companies and regional governments have sent aid to san francisco . sumitomo bank donated $ 500,000 , tokyo prefecture $ 15,000 and the city of osaka $ 10,000 . chinese officials are trying to use the canton trade fair to lure back overseas traders after the bloody crackdown on dissent . but attendance is down from previous years . what 's more , a hong kong textile trader says 0 , some chinese exporters from state-run enterprises are protesting the crackdown by dragging their feet on soliciting new business . `` they are angry about the government ... so they hold back the goods , '' he said . this autumn 's edition of the biannual fair will run through oct. 31 . inside the 156,000-square-yard glass exhibition complex , products ranging from clothing to ak-47 machine guns are on display . fair officials say that 21,000 guests visited during the first five days , a 10 % drop from the spring exhibition . but china 's official xinhua news agency reported that the number of foreign businessmen was greater than the previous fair -- without providing statistics . in another sign of glasnost , alexander solzhenitsyn 's long-banned chronicle of soviet repression , `` the gulag archipelago , '' is now recommended reading in one 11th-grade moscow history class ... . british customs officers said 0 they 'd arrested eight men sneaking 111 rare snakes into britain -- including one man who strapped a pair of boa constrictors under his armpits . a customs official said 0 the arrests followed a `` snake day '' at utrecht university in the netherlands , an event used by some collectors as an opportunity to obtain rare snakes .