since its founding in 1818 , brooks brothers , the standard-bearer of the ivy league look , has eschewed flashy sales promotions and fashion trends -- the rules that most retailers live by . but with sales growth sluggish and other men 's stores putting on the heat , the venerable retailer can no longer afford such a smug attitude . so two weeks ago , thousands of brooks brothers charge customers -- customers conditioned to wait for twice-yearly clearance sales -- got a surprise : an invitation to come in and buy any one item for 25 % off . during the four-day promotion , shoppers at the short hills , n.j. , store lined up to pay for big-ticket items like coats and suits . that 's not all . departing from its newspaper ads featuring prim sketches of a suit or a coat , brooks brothers is marketing an updated image in a new campaign that carries the slogan , `` the surprise of brooks brothers . '' one color photo displays a rainbow of dress shirts tied in a knot ; another picture shows neckties with bold designs . the message is loud and clear : this is not your father 's brooks brothers . as part of its national ad pitch , brooks brothers will show less preppy women 's clothes , moving away from its floppy-tie business stereotype . one ad shows a bright red jacket paired with a black leather skirt . and the ad copy is cheeky : `` how can you be a wall street hot shot without at least one brooks brothers suit in your portfolio ? '' brooks brothers hopes that shaking its time-honored traditions will attract more young men and more women and change consumer perceptions about its range of merchandise . `` we have men who only buy their shirts and underwear here or younger customers who only buy their -lcb- job -rcb- interview suit here , '' says william roberti , chairman and chief executive officer of brooks brothers . `` we want them to buy more of their wardrobe here . '' industry watchers agree that brooks brothers is long overdue in updating its buttoned-down image , which has stunted its growth . when acquired in may 1988 by british retailer marks & spencer plc , brooks brothers ' annual operating profit was about $ 41.8 million on sales of $ 290.1 million . mr. roberti concedes that since the $ 750 million takeover , `` sales growth has n't been dramatic . '' for the 11 months ended march 31 , operating profit at the 52-store chain totaled $ 40.5 million on sales of $ 286.8 million . as brooks brothers jumps into the fashion fray , it will be playing catch up . many clothiers , especially ralph lauren , have cashed in on the recent popularity of updated ivy league and english styles . in keeping with men 's broader fashion scope today , businessmen are dabbling in english and italian suits that are conservative but not stodgy . the rigid ivy league customer , brooks brothers ' bread and butter , meanwhile is becoming extinct . thus , brooks brothers has lost customers to stores that offer more variety such as paul stuart , barneys new york and louis , boston . `` brooks brothers no longer has a lock on the -lcb- ivy league -rcb- customer who is status-conscious about his clothes , '' says charlie davidson , president of the andover shop , a traditional men 's store in cambridge , mass . by making a break from tradition , brooks brothers is seeking a delicate balance . if it promotes fashion too much , the shop risks alienating its old-line customers ; by emphasizing `` value , '' it risks watering down its high-minded mystique . fashion industry consultants also question whether the company can make significant strides in its women 's business , given that its customer base is less established and that conservative business dress for women is on the decline . brooks brothers ' aim is for 20 % of total sales to come from the women 's department , up from the current 12 % . `` everybody forgets that there are fashion cycles in classic merchandise , '' observes carol farmer , a retail consultant . `` for women , dressing for success in a real structured way is over . '' despite these challenges , marks & spencer sees big potential in brooks brothers , noting the widely recognized name and global presence . marks & spencer plans to open roughly 18 more u.s. stores in the next five years . brooks brothers says 0 business is robust at its 30 outlets in japan and two shops in hong kong . marks & spencer is also considering opening stores across europe sometime in the future . alan smith , president of marks & spencer north america and far east , says that brooks brothers ' focus is to boost sales by broadening its merchandise assortment while keeping its `` traditional emphasis . '' the british parent is also streamlining : brooks brothers , which continues to make almost all of its merchandise , recently shut one of its two shirt plants in paterson , n.j. , and has closed boys ' departments in all but 20 stores . brooks brothers is also remodeling its stores . wednesday , it will unveil a $ 7 million refurbishing at its flagship store on madison avenue . with newly installed escalators , the store retains its signature wood-and-brass look but is less intimidating . more shirts and sweaters will be laid out on tables , instead of sitting behind glass cases , so that customers can `` walk up and touch them , '' mr. roberti says 0 . because the biggest growth in menswear is in casual sportswear , brooks brothers is chasing more of that business . the entire second floor of its madison avenue store is now casual sportswear featuring items such as ski sweaters , leather backpacks and a $ 42 wool baseball hat with the store 's crest . the centerpiece of the overhaul , according to mr. roberti , is the men 's tailored clothing department , where brooks brothers has added new suit styles and fabrics . `` the perception out there is that we are very conservative and we only sell one type of suit , '' mr. roberti says , referring to brooks brothers ' signature three-button `` sack suit , '' with a center-vented jacket and boxy fit . but it now offers more two-button versions and suits with a tapered fit . it also plans to add suits cut for athletic men with broader upper bodies . next spring , nearly 30 % of its suits will have pleated pants , compared with virtually none a couple of years ago . says mr. roberti : `` we want to turn the customer on .