whether or not `` great cases make bad-law '' -- as justice holmes asserted -- who can doubt that when great confirmation hearings turn on the nominee 's response to these great cases they make bad judicial history ? ethan bronner 's `` battle for justice : how the bork nomination shook america '' -lrb- norton , 399 pages , $ 22.50 -rrb- is a spirited narrative of the nastiest of these hearings , done with journalistic verve , but with a flawed legal philosophy . while the book amply justifies its subtitle , the title itself is dubious . what shook america was not a battle for justice but for naked power , in which an army of judicial activists rolled over a judge 0 they had demonized . in its basic structure and style the book is novelistic , with piquant character portrayal , hard-wire action and devious intrigue of the sort more likely to be encountered in a washington docudrama than in a constitutional history . mr. bronner seems to believe that the hearings could have gone either way . i doubt that . given democratic frustration with the reagan victories and court appointments , the contingency plans in place , and mr. bork 's paper trail of vulnerable writings , it was pretty clear that judge bork never stood much chance of being confirmed . as mr. bronner himself says 0 , the smell of `` raw meat '' was in the air . perhaps because they won , mr. bork 's attackers come through more vividly than his defenders . ralph neas was the organizing genius , whipping a conglomerate of pressure groups into an irresistible attacking force . harvard 's laurence tribe was the constitutional heavy , laying out legal strategies 0 for the senators and witnesses to follow . but it was ted kennedy who scored most effectively with his searing portrayal of `` robert bork 's america '' -- the parade of imaginary horribles that would follow logically , he claimed 0 , from the positions 0 mr. bork had taken over the space of two decades . sen. kennedy , never mind his dubious credentials for the moral high ground , emoted brilliantly . i add two others . republican sen. arlen specter of pennsylvania engaged the nominee in a verbal contest aimed at showing that mr. bork was willing to stretch the constitution in one area -lrb- free speech -rrb- while remaining rigid in all the others . it achieved a good media play , and enabled sen. specter and others to vote against mr. bork out of `` conscience . '' further ammunition came from left legal theorist ronald dworkin , who in the new york review of books painted a picture of a constitutional zombie willfully reading his personal prejudices into the constitution , particularly in the area of `` original intent . '' the charge of being `` outside the mainstream '' of legal thought gravely undercut mr. bork 's scholarly standing , leaving him bleeding on the platform . the nomination still might have been salvaged if a number of democratic moderates in the south and southwest had broken party lines . but democratic sen. bennett johnson of louisiana reminded the little band that anti-bork blacks and women could furnish the margin 0 to punish them in their next senate elections . demographics converged with `` mainstream '' and demonizing to seal robert bork 's fate . the upshot ? mr. bork 's opponents chose the battlefield , held it and kept it . yet with the smooth confirmation of anthony kennedy , an `` 80 percenter '' only slightly less supportive of judicial restraint than mr. bork , the democrats may have won the battle but lost the war . another upshot , however , was the chilling message 0 the bork hearings sent into the judicial culture from which the supreme court draws its talent . the word went forth to every law school that those with federal court ambitions must travel a safe constitutional journey , with no paper trail and no bite to their tongue or pen . unfortunately , the author simply does n't supply the philosophical frame 0 to sustain his reportorial talents . he has too readily swallowed the case for the activist law school culture . probing more deeply into the doctrine of `` judicial restraint , '' he would have found a long history going back to the great decisions of justice holmes . he would discover it also in alexander bickel , a subtle constitutional scholar , mr. bork 's closest friend at yale , whose influence on the judge goes well beyond mr. bronner 's reporting . still , the long view of robert bork as constitutional thinker must be a spotty one . his strength lies in his majoritarian doctrine , which keeps the court clear of transient group pressures and leaves most decisions in a democracy to elected legislatures and executives . unfortunately , mr. bork failed to distinguish between such pressures and the emergence of great issues critical to a society that must be settled judicially if it is to cohere . the question of segregated schools , in brown vs. board of education , was such an issue . in our time abortion has become another , best left to a line of supreme court decisions rather than to the chaos of 50 state legislatures . a reflective and growing consensus of americans clearly wishes to apply the right to privacy in contraceptive matters -lrb- decided in the griswold case -rrb- to abortion as well . one can understand mr. bork 's fear that the new right to privacy will become intolerably stretched , though a supreme court composed of men and women with realism , guts and a sense of limits should be able to manage it . what is certain is that if americans allow another happening like the degrading bork confirmation circus , it will be at their peril . mr. lerner is a writer and historian living in new york .