general electric co. executives and lawyers provided `` misleading and false '' information to the pentagon in 1985 in an effort to cover up `` longstanding fraudulent '' billing practices , federal prosecutors alleged 0 in legal briefs . the government 's startling allegations , filed only days before the scheduled start of a criminal overcharge trial against ge in philadelphia federal district court , challenge the motives and veracity of the nation 's third-largest defense contractor . in a strongly worded response summarizing a filing made in the same court yesterday , ge asserted that `` prosecutors have misstated the testimony of witnesses , distorted documents and ignored important facts . '' the company attacked the government 's allegations as `` reckless and baseless mudslinging , '' and said 0 its management `` promptly and accurately reported '' to the pentagon all relevant information about billing practices . the case strikes at the corporate image of ge , which provides the military with everything from jet engines and electronic warfare equipment to highly classified design work on the strategic defense initiative , and could cause a loss of future defense contracts if pentagon and justice department officials take a tough stance . the company has been considered an industry leader in advocating cooperation and voluntary disclosures of improper or inflated billing practices . but the government now claims that a group of company managers and lawyers engaged in an elaborate strategy over five years to obscure from federal authorities the extent and details of `` widespread '' fraudulent billing practices . the problems were uncovered during a series of internal investigations of the company 's space systems division , which has been the focus of two separate overcharge prosecutions by the government since 1985 . the dispute stems from pretrial maneuvering in the pending court case , in which prosecutors have been demanding access to a host of internal company memos , reports and documents . last november , a federal grand jury indicted ge on charges of fraud and false claims in connection with an alleged scheme to defraud the army of $ 21 million on a logistics computer contract . the company , for its part , maintains that many of the disputed documents are privileged attorney-client communications that should n't be turned over to prosecutors . a hearing is scheduled on the issue today . the government 's 136-page filing covers events leading up to the current case and an earlier indictment in march 1985 , when ge was accused of defrauding the pentagon by illegally claiming cost overruns on minuteman missile contracts . ge pleaded guilty and paid a fine of more than $ 1 million in the minuteman case , which involved some of the same individuals and operations that are at the center of the dispute in the philadelphia court . in order to show that all of its units had corrected billing problems and therefore should become eligible again for new contracts , prosecutors contend that `` high-level ge executives '' and company lawyers provided `` misleading statements '' to then-air force secretary verne orr and other pentagon officials during a series of meetings in 1985 . overall , the government contends that ge 's disclosure efforts largely were intended to `` curry favor '' with pentagon officials without detailing the extent of the management lapses and allegedly pervasive billing irregularities uncovered by company investigations . prosecutors depict a company that allegedly sat on damaging evidence of overcharges from 1983 to 1985 , despite warnings from an internal auditor . when ge finally disclosed the problems , prosecutors contend that mr. orr `` was erroneously informed that the -lcb- suspected -rcb- practices had only just been discovered '' by ge management . in its brief , the government asserted that it needs the internal ge documents to rebut anticipated efforts by ge during the trial to demonstrate `` its good corporate character . '' ge , which was surprised by the last-minute subpoena for more than 100 boxes and file cabinets of documents , countered that senior ge managers did n't find out about questionable billing practices until 1985 , and that the information was passed on quickly to mr. orr at his first meeting with company representatives . subsequent meetings , initiated after the company and two of its units were briefly suspended from federal contracts , were held to familiarize mr. orr with the company 's self-policing procedures and to disclose additional information , according to ge . ge 's filing contends that the billing practices at the heart of the current controversy involved technical disputes rather than criminal activity . the company 's conduct `` does not even raise a question of wrongful corporate intent , ratification or cover-up , '' ge 's brief asserts 0 . `` on the contrary , it shows a corporation reacting swiftly and aggressively to very difficult issues in largely uncharted waters . '' mr. orr could n't be reached for comment yesterday .