motorola is fighting back against junk mail . so much of the stuff poured into its austin , texas , offices that its mail rooms there simply stopped delivering it . now , thousands of mailers , catalogs and sales pitches go straight into the trash . `` we just do n't have the staff 0 to -lcb- deliver -rcb- it , nor do we have the space or the time , '' says a spokesman for the schaumburg , ill. , electronics company , which has 5,000 employees in the austin area . `` it 's the overload problem and the weight problem 0 we have . '' motorola is in good company . businesses across the country are getting fed up with junk mail , and some are saying 0 they just are n't going to take it anymore -- literally . while no one has tracked how many company mail rooms throw out junk mail , direct-mail advertising firms say 0 the number is growing . general motors earlier this year said 0 it would n't deliver bulk mail or free magazines in its flint , mich. , office , while air products & chemicals , allentown , pa. , says 0 it screens junk mail and often throws out most of a given mass mailing . why the revolt ? anybody with a mailbox can answer that : sheer , overwhelming , mind-numbing volume . according to the direct marketing association , total direct mail -- to both businesses and consumers -- jumped 50 % to 65.4 billion pieces in 1988 from five years earlier . though direct mail to businesses is n't broken out separately , the association says 0 it 's growing even faster . the deluge has spurred cost-conscious companies to action , with mail rooms throwing the stuff out rather than taking the time or money to deliver it . the direct-mail industry , not surprisingly , is fuming at the injustice of it all . after all , this is the industry that has a hard enough time getting any respect , that is the butt of so many jokes that television 's `` l.a. law '' portrays direct-mail-mogul david as short , bald , intensely nerdy , and unremittingly boring . the practice of businesses throwing out junk mail `` is a commonly known problem , and it 's increasing as companies attempt to put through budget cuts across the board , '' right down to the mail-room level , says 0 stephen belth , a list consultant and chairman of the direct marketing association 's business-to-business council . `` but it 's like biting the hand that feeds them , because every one of these companies uses direct marketing . '' it 's almost impossible to track the number of companies trashing junk mail , since the decision is usually made in the mail room -- not the board room . and the practice often varies from location to location even within a company . but industry executives say 0 businesses seem especially inclined to dump mailers sent to titles rather than to individual names . motorola 's austin operation was one of the first 0 to lose patience , deciding a few years ago to junk any bulk mail that was n't addressed to an individual . magazines are n't delivered at all , even if an individual 's name is listed ; employees who want their magazines have to pick them up from the mail room or the company library -- and are told to change the subscriptions to their home addresses . at air products , meanwhile , the mailroom staff opens junk mail and often throws it away -- even if addressed to an individual . `` if they get 50 packets of something , they open one , see what it says , throw 48 away and send two to people or departments 0 they think are appropriate , '' a spokesman says . direct marketers were especially alarmed when general motors -- one of the country 's largest companies and a big direct-mail user itself -- entered the junk-mail battle . as of march 1 , its flint office , with about 2,500 employees , stopped delivering bulk mail and non-subscription magazines . employees were told that if they really wanted the publications , they would have to have them sent home instead . the reason : overload , especially of non-subscription magazines . direct-mail executives see gm 's stand as an ominous sign -- even if the junk-mail kings did bring it on themselves . `` why anyone would want to close themselves off -lcb- from direct mail -rcb- , a priori , does n't make any sense , '' says michael bronner of bronner slosberg associates , a boston directmail firm . `` it smacks of big brotherism . they 're going to decide what their employees can or can not read . '' the practice is , however , legal in most cases . jack ellis , a u.s. postal inspector in new york , says 0 the postal service 's only job is to deliver the mail to the mail room ; once it gets there , a company can do with it what it wishes . the junk-mail titans , ever optimistic , are looking for ways around the problem . so far , they say 0 , it has n't had any noticeable effect on response rates . and before it does , they 're trying to cut back on the clutter that created the situation in the first place . among other things , the industry is trying to come up with standardized business lists that cut down on duplications . `` we 're going to have to mail a lot less and a lot smarter , '' says jack miller , president of quill corp. , a lincolnshire , ill. , business-to-business mail-order company . but then again , mailing less and smarter wo n't be much help if the mail ends up in the garbage anyway . new hyundai campaign hyundai motor america , fighting quality complaints , declining sales and management turmoil , yesterday unveiled its 1990 ad strategy , tagged `` we 're making more sense than ever . '' the ad campaign , created by saatchi & saatchi 's backer spielvogel bates agency , is an extension of the auto company 's `` cars that make sense '' campaign , which emphasized affordability . tv ads plugging the company 's new v-6 sonata and its souped-up excel subcompact will begin appearing monday . one spot shows a sonata next to a rival midsized car , and an announcer says , `` listen to what they 're saying about the hyundai sonata . '' as the announcer reads favorable quotes about the model from motor trend and road & track magazines , the other car , which is white , slowly turns green . `` no wonder 0 the competition 's green with envy , '' the announcer says . ad notes ... . acquisition : ewdb , formed by the merger of eurocom and della femina mcnamee wcrs , said 0 it agreed to buy vizeversa , an agency in barcelona . terms were n't disclosed . holiday ads : seagram will run two interactive ads in december magazines promoting its chivas regal and crown royal brands . the chivas ad illustrates -- via a series of pullouts -- the wild reactions from the pool man , gardener and others if not given chivas for christmas . the three-page crown royal ad features a black-and-white shot of a boring holiday party -- and a set of colorful stickers with which readers can dress it up . both ads were designed by omnicom 's ddb needham agency .