bob stone stewed over a letter from his manager putting him on probation for insubordination . mr. stone thought 0 the discipline was unfair ; he believed that his manager wanted to get rid of him for personal reasons . unable to persuade the manager to change his decision , he went to a `` company court '' for a hearing . at the scheduled time , mr. stone entered a conference room in a building near where he worked . after the three members of the court introduced themselves , the chairman of the panel said : `` go ahead and tell us what happened . we may ask questions as you go along , or we may wait until the end . '' no lawyers or tape recorders were present . the only extra people were a couple of personnel specialists , one of whom knew mr. stone 's case intimately and would help fill in any facts needed to give the court the full picture . over a cup of coffee , mr. stone told his story . he talked about 20 minutes . when he was through , the court members asked many questions , then the chairman said 0 they would like to hear his manager 's side and talk to witnesses . the chairman promised mr. stone a decision within two weeks . bob stone is a fictional name , but the incident described is real . it happened at northrop corp. in los angeles . the court is called the management appeals committee , or just `` mac , '' and it is likely to hear a couple of dozen cases a year . alter some details of this example and it could be taking place today at federal express in memphis , the defense and underseas systems divisions of honeywell in minneapolis , a general electric plant in columbia , md. , or a number of other companies . these firms are pioneers in a significant new trend in the corporate world : the rise of what i call corporate due process . although corporate due process is practiced today in few companies -- perhaps 40 to 60 -- it is one of the fastest developing trends in industry . in the coming decade a majority of people-oriented companies are likely to adopt it . corporate due process appeals to management for a variety of reasons . it reduces lawsuits from disgruntled employees and ex-employees , with all 0 that means for reduced legal costs and better public relations . it helps to keep out unions . it increases employee commitment to the company , with all 0 that means for efficiency and quality control . what must your management team do to establish corporate due process ? here are four key steps : 1 . make sure 0 you have a strong personnel department . it must be able to handle most of the complaints that can not be solved in the trenches by managers and their subordinates , else the company court or adjudicators will be inundated with cases . at polaroid , the personnel policy planning committee may hear only about 20 cases a year ; the rest of the many hundreds of complaints are resolved at earlier stages . at twa , the system board of adjustment hears 50 to 75 cases a year , only a fraction of the complaints brought to personnel specialists . at citicorp , the problem review board may hear only 12 or so cases because of personnel 's skill in complaint-resolution . in a typical year , up to 20 % of the work force goes to personnel specialists with complaints of unfair treatment . in a large company that means many hundreds of complaints for personnel 0 to handle . 2 . formally or informally , train all your managers and supervisors in the company 's due-process approach . see that they know company personnel policy backwards and forwards , for it is the `` law '' governing company courts and adjudicators . coach them in handling complaints so that they can resolve problems immediately . in case managers and personnel specialists are unsuccessful and subordinates take their complaints to a company court or adjudicator , teach managers to accept reversals as a fact of business life , for in a good due-process system they are bound to happen . in the 15 companies 0 i studied , reversal rates range on the average from 20 % to 40 % . 3 . decide whether you want a panel system or a single adjudicator . a panel system like that in the bob stone example enjoys such advantages as high credibility and , for the panelists , mutual support . an adjudicator system -- that is , an investigator who acts first as a fact-finder and then switches hats and arbitrates the facts -- has such advantages as speed , flexibility and maximum privacy . international business machines and bank of america are among the companies using the single-adjudicator approach . 4 . make your due-process system visible . it wo n't do any good for anybody unless employees know about it . most managements hesitate to go all out in advertising their due-process systems for fear of encouraging cranks and chronic soreheads to file complaints . on the other hand , they make sure at a minimum that their systems are described in their employee handbooks and talked up by personnel specialists . smith-kline beecham goes further and sometimes features its grievance procedure in closed-circuit tv programs . naturally , one of the best ways 0 to guarantee visibility for your due-process system is for top management to support it . at ibm , the company 's open door system is sometimes the subject of memorandums from the chief executive . federal express goes further in this respect than any company 0 i know of with both frederick smith and james barksdale , chief executive and chief operating officer , respectively , sitting in on the appeals board almost every tuesday to decide cases . mr. ewing is a consultant based in winchester , mass. , and author of `` justice on the job : resolving grievances in the nonunion workplace '' -lrb- harvard business school press , 1989 -rrb- .