market makers in nasdaq over-the-counter stocks are adding their voices to the swelling chorus of complaints about program trading . their motivation , however , has a strong practical aspect : program trading is hazardous to their paychecks . the most controversial form of program trading , stock-index arbitrage , is `` making it tough for traders to make money , '' declares robert antolini , head of otc trading at donaldson , lufkin & jenrette . stock-index arbitrage -- the computer-guided buying and selling of stocks with offsetting trades in stock-index futures 0 to profit from fleeting price discrepancies -- affects the otc market directly through the 31 stocks included in standard & poor 's 500-stock index . the s&p 500 is often used in arbitrage strategies . the portion of otc volume attributable to program trading is n't known , as it is on the new york stock exchange , where it amounted to more than 13 % in september . estimates from traders put it at less than 5 % of nasdaq 's average daily volume of roughly 133 million shares . other market-maker gripes : program trading also causes the nasdaq composite index to lose ground against other segments of the stock market . because of program trading it is more difficult to trade many otc stocks without sharp price moves , a condition known as illiquidity . moreover , the price volatility that is amplified by program trading is undercutting efforts to woo individual investors back to an otc market that sorely misses them . some of these problems are neither new nor unique to the otc market . but the big , often tumultuous slide in stock prices this month has turned some of those who have been profiting from the practice against it . peter dapuzzo , head of retail equity trading at shearson lehman hutton , acknowledges that he was n't troubled by program trading when it began in the pre-crash bull market because it added liquidity and people were pleased to see stock prices rising . `` we were n't as concerned until they became sell programs , '' says mr. dapuzzo , who now thinks 0 it adds unnecessary volatility . shearson lehman , however , executes program trades for clients . merrill lynch , goldman sachs and kidder peabody , in addition to shearson , do program-trade otc stocks . shearson , merrill lynch and goldman sachs say 0 they do so only for customers , however . kidder peabody does program trading for its own as well as clients ' accounts . of course , there were sell programs in past years , too , but they seem to hurt market makers more painfully these days . that 's largely because of defensive measures 0 they adopted after the 1987 crash , when individual investors fled the market and trading activity dwindled . market makers , to cut costs , slashed inventories of stocks 0 they keep on hand 0 to sell investors when other holders are n't selling . and to protect their reduced capital investment from eroding further , market makers became quicker to lower price quotes when sell programs are in progress . on days when prices are tumbling , they must be willing to buy shares from sellers when no one else will . in such an environment , market makers can suffer huge losses both on trades made that day at steadily dropping prices and in the value of their inventories of shares . `` it makes no sense for us to put money at risk when you know 0 you 're going to lose , '' says mr. antolini , of donaldson lufkin . but this skittishness , mr. antolini says 0 , is creating liquidity problems in certain otc stocks . `` it 's harder to sell stocks when the sell programs come in because some market makers do n't want to -lcb- take the orders -rcb- . no one has big positions and no one wants to take big risks . '' joseph hardiman , president of the national association of securities dealers , which oversees trading on nasdaq , agrees that program trading is hurting the market 's efforts to bring back small investors . but , he observes 0 , while makers suffer losses when program trading drags the market down , they also make money when program trading pushes the prices higher . `` sometimes -lcb- traders -rcb- lose sight of that , '' he says . the otc stocks in the s&p 500 include nasdaq 's biggest , such as apple computer , mci communications , tele-communications and liz claiborne . these big stocks greatly influence the nasdaq composite index . when the computers say `` sell , '' the composite tumbles as well as the dow jones industrial average . the problem , market makers say 0 , is that while the industrial average and the s&p 500 usually recover as buy programs kick in , the nasdaq composite frequently is left behind . eight trading days after oct. 12 , the day before the stock market plunge , for instance , the nasdaq composite had fallen 4.3 % , compared with 3.3 % for the s&p 500 , 3.5 % for the new york stock exchange composite index and 3.6 % for the industrial average . this gap eventually closes , but slowly . three days later , as of friday 's close , the nasdaq composite was down 6 % , compared with 5.9 % for the industrial average , 5.7 % for the s&p 500 and 5.8 % for the big board composite . the main reason for this lag is that individual investors own 65 % of the otc market 's capitalization , according to mr. hardiman , much more than on the big board . such investors tend to be more cautious than institutional investors are about re-entering the market after massive selloffs , market makers say 0 . friday 's market activity the nasdaq composite index tumbled 5.39 , or 1.2 % to 452.76 on friday . for the week , the index dropped 3.8 % . weakness in big technology stocks hurt the composite as well as the nasdaq 100 index , which fell 1.4 % , or 6.43 , on friday , to 437.68 . the nasdaq financial index lost about 1 % , or 3.95 , to 448.80 . friday 's trading volume totaled 132.8 million shares . the average daily share turnover for october is almost 148 million shares . lin broadcasting surged 4 5\/8 to 112 5\/8 ; lin and bellsouth sweetened their merger agreement in an attempt to keep shareholders from tendering their shares to mccaw cellular communications . mccaw , which dropped 2 1\/2 to 37 3\/4 , has offered $ 125 a share for a majority of lin 's shares . the revised lin-bellsouth agreement boosts the dollar amount of the special dividend 0 lin promises to pay shareholders . lin now plans to dole out $ 42 a share in cash , up from the earlier $ 20 amount . intel eased 1\/8 to 31 7\/8 . the semiconductor concern said 0 the interruption in shipment of its 80486 computer chip will be brief and have little impact on the company 's earnings . the stock fell 7\/8 thursday amid concerns over problems discovered with the chip . intel told analysts that the company will resume shipments of the chips within two to three weeks . weisfield 's rocketed 9 1\/2 to 39 after the jewelry store operator said 0 it is in preliminary discussions , with a party 0 it would n't identify , regarding the possible acquisition of the company . starpointe savings bank rose 3 to 20 after the federal deposit insurance corp. approved dime savings bank of new york 's $ 21-a-share acquisition of starpointe . kirschner medical fell 4 to 15 . the company said 0 its third-quarter earnings will probably be lower than the 16 cents a share 0 it reported last year , despite a rise in the company 's revenue . kirschner earned $ 376,000 on revenue of $ 14.5 million in the 1988 quarter . the company blamed a number of factors for the earnings decline , including softer sales of joint-implants .