kidder , peabody & co. is trying to struggle back . only a few months ago , the 124-year-old securities firm seemed to be on the verge of a meltdown , racked by internal squabbles and defections . its relationship with parent general electric co. had been frayed since a big kidder insider-trading scandal two years ago . chief executives and presidents had come and gone . now , the firm says 0 it 's at a turning point . by the end of this year , 63-year-old chairman silas cathcart -- the former chairman of illinois tool works who was derided as a `` tool-and-die man '' when ge brought him in to clean up kidder in 1987 -- retires to his lake forest , ill. , home , possibly to build a shopping mall on some land 0 he owns . `` i 've done what i came to do '' at kidder , he says 0 . and that means 0 42-year-old michael carpenter , president and chief executive since january , will for the first time take complete control of kidder and try to make good on some grandiose plans . mr. carpenter says 0 he will return kidder to prominence as a great investment bank . wall street is understandably skeptical . through the first nine months of the year , kidder ranks a distant 10th among underwriters of u.s. stocks and bonds , with a 2.8 % market share , up slightly from 2.5 % in the year-earlier period , according to securities data co . it 's quite a fall from the early 1980s , when kidder still was counted as an investment-banking powerhouse . gary s. goldstein , president of the whitney group , an executive search firm , said : `` i 'd like to see -lrb- kidder -rrb- succeed . but they have to attract good senior bankers who can bring in the business from day one . '' in 1988 , kidder eked out a $ 46 million profit , mainly because of severe cost cutting . its 1,400-member brokerage operation reported an estimated $ 5 million loss last year , although kidder expects it to turn a profit this year . in fact , kidder is a minor player in just about every business 0 it does except computer-driven program trading ; in that controversial business , only morgan stanley & co. rivals kidder . but even that niche is under attack , as several wall street firms pulled back from program trading last week under pressure from big investors . mr. carpenter , a former consulting-firm executive who has a love for `` task forces , '' says 0 he has done a `` complete rethink '' of kidder in recent months . there have been a dizzying parade of studies of the firm 's operations . more than 20 new managing directors and senior vice presidents have been hired since january . the firm 's brokerage force has been trimmed and its mergers-and-acquisitions staff increased to a record 55 people . mr. carpenter says that when he assumes full control , kidder will finally tap the resources of ge . one of ge 's goals when it bought 80 % of kidder in 1986 was to take advantage of `` syngeries '' between kidder and general electric capital corp. , ge 's corporate-finance unit , which has $ 42 billion in assets . the leveraged buy-out group of ge capital now reports to mr. carpenter . so far , instead of teaming up , ge capital staffers and kidder investment bankers have bickered . yet , says 0 mr. carpenter , `` we 've really started to exploit the synergy between ge capital and kidder peabody . '' the units have worked on 37 investment banking deals this year , he says 0 , though not all of them have panned out . `` we 've had a good relationship with ge , which is the first time 0 you could say that -- uh , let me withdraw that . it 's been a steadily improving relationship , '' says mr. carpenter . still , without many actual deals 0 to show off , kidder is left to stress that it finally has `` a team '' in place , and that everyone works harder . a month ago , the firm started serving dinner at about 7:30 each night ; about 50 to 60 of the 350 people in the investment banking operation have consistently been around that late . `` we are working significantly longer and harder than has been the case in the past , '' says scott c. newquist , kidder 's head of investment banking since june . everywhere , kidder stresses the `` always working '' theme . a new in-house magazine , kidder world -- which will focus on the firm 's synergy strategy , says 0 mr. carpenter -- confides that on weekends mr. newquist `` often gets value-added ideas while flying his single-engine cessna centurion on the way to nantucket . '' the firm 's new head of mergers and acquisitions under mr. newquist , b.j. megargel , talks of the opportunity to `` rebuild a franchise '' at kidder . `` the kidder name is one of only six or seven that every ceo recognizes as a viable alternative '' when considering a merger deal , he says . now , according to a kidder world story about mr. megargel , all 0 the firm has to do is `` position ourselves more in the deal flow . '' with investment banking as kidder 's `` lead business , '' where do kidder 's 42-branch brokerage network and its 1,400 brokers fit in ? mr. carpenter this month sold off kidder 's eight brokerage offices in florida and puerto rico to merrill lynch & co. , refueling speculation that kidder is getting out of the brokerage business entirely . mr. carpenter denies the speculation . to answer the brokerage question , kidder , in typical fashion , completed a task-force study . the result : kidder will focus on rich individual investors and small companies , much closer to the clientele of goldman , sachs & co. than a serve-the-world firm like merrill lynch or shearson lehman hutton inc . mr. carpenter notes that these types of investors also are `` sophisticated '' enough not to complain about kidder 's aggressive use of program trading . as part of the upscale push , kidder is putting brokers through a 20-week training course , turning them into `` investment counselors '' with knowledge of corporate finance . they will get `` new and improved tools 0 to sell , particularly to the affluent investor , '' says brokerage chief charles v. sheehan . theoretically , the brokers will then be able to funnel `` leads '' on corporate finance opportunities to kidder 's investment bankers , possibly easing the longstanding tension between the two camps . however , skeptics caution that this kind of cross-pollination between brokers and investment bankers looks great on paper , but does n't always happen . kidder competitors are n't outwardly hostile to the firm , as many are to a tough competitor like drexel burnham lambert inc. that does n't have kidder 's long history . however , competitors say that kidder 's hiring binge involving executive-level staffers , some with multiple-year contract guarantees , could backfire unless there are results . the departing mr. cathcart says 0 he has no worries about kidder 's future . mr. cathcart , who will return to the quaker oats co. board of directors , in addition to his personal ventures , is credited with bringing some basic budgeting and planning discipline to traditionally free-wheeling kidder . he also improved the firm 's compliance procedures for trading . mr. cathcart says 0 he has had `` a lot of fun '' at kidder , adding 0 the crack about his being a `` tool-and-die man '' never bothered him . `` it was an absolutely marvelous line and one 0 i used many times , '' he says . smiling broadly when he talks about mr. carpenter , mr. cathcart says 0 the new kidder chief is `` going to be recognized shortly as one of the real leaders in the investment-banking business . '' in coming years , mr. cathcart says 0 , kidder is `` gon na hum . '' or , as mr. carpenter , again drawing on his consulting-firm background , puts it : `` we 're ready to implement at this point .