the prices of corn futures contracts jumped amid rumors that the soviet union is keeping up its dizzying october buying binge of u.s. corn . those rumors were confirmed after the end of trading yesterday when the u.s. agriculture department announced that the soviets had bought 1.2 million metric tons of u.s. corn , bringing their u.s. corn purchases confirmed so far this month to about five million metric tons . in trading at the chicago board of trade , the corn contract for december delivery jumped 5.75 cents a bushel to settle at $ 2.44 a bushel . the soviet purchases are close to exceeding what some analysts had expected the soviet union to buy this fall , the season in which it usually buys much of the corn 0 it imports from the u.s. . that pace is causing some analysts to speculate that the soviet union might soon purchase as much as another two million metric tons . one sign that more soviet purchases are possible is that u.s. grain companies yesterday bought an unusually large amount of corn futures contracts . that sometimes signals that they are laying plans to export corn . by some estimates , several grain companies combined bought contracts for the possession of roughly one million metric tons of corn . by buying futures contracts , these companies attempt to protect themselves from swings in the price of the corn that they are obligated to deliver . rumors of soviet interest also pushed up the prices of soybean futures contracts . among other things , the agriculture department is widely thought to be mulling whether to subsidize the sale of soybean oil to the soviet union . on top of all this , corn and soybean prices rose on reports that the midwest harvest was disrupted by a freakishly early snow storm that dumped several inches in parts of indiana and ohio . the harvest delays , however , are expected to be temporary . balmy temperatures are forecast for next week , said 0 robert lekberg , an analyst at farmers grain & livestock corp. , chicago . many farmers used the jump in prices to sell their recently harvested crop to grain elevator companies . the heavy selling by farmers helped to damp the price rally . wheat futures prices rose slightly . in other commodity markets yesterday : precious metals : futures prices declined . a number of developments were negatively interpreted by traders . december delivery gold fell $ 1.80 an ounce to $ 370.60 . december silver eased 2.7 cents an ounce to $ 5.133 . january platinum was down $ 3.60 an ounce at $ 491.10 . one price-depressing development was the lower-than-expected increase of only 0.2 % in the consumer price index for september , an analyst said 0 . he noted that the `` core inflation rate , '' which excludes food and energy , was also low at 0.2 % . other news that weighed on the market : initial unemployment claims rose by 62,000 last week ; american telephone & telegraph co. will reduce its managerial staff by 15,000 through attrition ; the oil market turned weaker ; there was n't any investor demand for bullion ; and the dollar strengthened during the day , putting pressure on gold . also , the analyst said 0 , economic circumstances are such that both south africa and the soviet union , the principal gold and platinum producers , are being forced to continue selling the metals . both are in great need of foreign exchange , and south africa is also under pressure to meet foreign loan commitments , he said 0 . `` putting it all together , we have a negative scenario that does n't look like it will improve overnight , '' he said . copper : futures prices recovered in quiet trading . the december contract rose 1.50 cents a pound to $ 1.2795 . that contract fell a total of 5.75 cents during the first three days of this week , mostly in reaction to last friday 's stock market plunge , which prompted concern that it might signal a similar sharp slowing of the u.s. economy and thus reduced demand for copper , a leading industrial metal . in recent days , however , there has been increased purchasing of copper in london , an analyst said 0 . some of this buying was by japan , which has had its supplies sharply reduced by long production stoppages at the bougainville mine in papua new guinea , highland valley mine in british columbia , and the cananea mine in mexico , which are major shippers to japan . the increasing likelihood that cananea and highland valley will soon return to production may have cut some of that purchasing , but even if any of these mines begin operating soon , their output wo n't be significant until at least the end of the year , analysts note 0 . so , one analyst said , even though the long-term production problems may be easing , there will still be a significant need for copper over the next three months , when inventories will remain relatively low . energy : crude oil prices ended mixed . west texas intermediate for november delivery fell 14 cents a barrel to $ 20.42 . but so-called outer month contracts finished higher . for instance , december contracts for wti rose 17 cents to $ 20.42 . most energy futures opened lower , following wednesday 's market downturn . but a flurry of late trading yesterday beefed up prices . heating oil and gasoline futures ended higher as well .