many skittish mutual fund investors picked up the phone yesterday , but decided not to cash in their chips after all . as the stock market bounced back , withdrawals of money from stock funds amounted to a mere trickle compared with black monday , when investors dumped $ 2.3 billion , or about 2 % of stock-fund assets . fidelity investments , the nation 's largest fund company , said 0 phone volume was more than double its typical level , but still half that of oct. 19 , 1987 . net outflows from fidelity 's stock funds stood at less than $ 300 million , or below 15 % of the $ 2 billion cash position of the firm 's stock portfolios . much of the money was switched into the firm 's money market funds . outflows since the close of trading friday remain below one-third their level of two years ago , fidelity said 0 . other mutual fund companies reported even lighter withdrawal requests . and some investors at fidelity and elsewhere even began buying stock funds during the day . `` two years ago , there was a lot of redemption activity and trouble with people getting through on the phone , '' said kathryn mcgrath , head of the investment management division of the securities and exchange commission . this time , `` we do n't have that at all . '' of course , the relative calm could be jolted if the market plunges again . and any strong surge in redemptions could force some funds to dump stocks to raise cash , as some did during black monday . but funds generally are better prepared this time around . as a group , their cash position of 10.2 % of assets in august -- the latest figure available -- is 14 % higher than two years earlier . many fund managers have boosted their cash levels in recent weeks . the biggest flurry of investor activity came early in the day . vanguard group inc. saw heavy exchanges from stock funds into money market funds after the telephone lines opened at 8:30 a.m . `` in the first hour , the real nervous folks came along , '' a spokesman said . `` but the horrendous pace of call volume in the first half-hour slowed considerably . '' at scudder , stevens & clark inc. , phone calls came in at 40 % more than the normal pace through early afternoon . most of that increase came in the first hour after the phone lines opened at 8 a.m . as stocks rose , in fact , some investors changed course and reversed their sell orders . many funds allow investors to void orders before the close of trading . at scudder and at the smaller ivy funds group in hingham , mass. , for instance , some shareholders called early in the morning to switch money from stock funds to money market funds , but later called back to reverse the switches . because mutual fund trades do n't take effect until the market close -- in this case , at 4 p.m. -- these shareholders effectively stayed put . at fidelity 's office in downtown boston , gerald sherman walked in shortly after 7:30 a.m. and placed an order to switch his retirement accounts out of three stock funds and into a money market fund . but by 3:15 p.m. , with the market comfortably ahead for the day , mr. sherman was preparing to undo his switch . `` it 's a nice feeling to know that things stabilized , '' said mr. sherman , the 51-year-old co-owner of a discount department store . but some investors continued to switch out of high-risk , high-yield junk funds despite yesterday 's rebound from that market 's recent price declines . shareholders have been steadily bailing out of several big junk funds the past several weeks as the $ 200 billion market was jolted by a cash crunch at campeau corp. and steadily declining prices . much of the money has been switched into money market funds , fund executives say 0 . instead of selling bonds to meet redemptions , however , some funds have borrowed from banks to meet withdrawal requests . this avoids knocking down prices further . the $ 1.1 billion t. rowe price high yield fund was among the funds that borrowed during the campeau crisis , says 0 george j. collins , president of t. rowe price associates inc . that way , mr. collins says , `` we did n't have to sell securities in a sloppy market . '' when the market stabilized , he added 0 , the firm sold the bonds and quickly paid the loans back . tom herman contributed to this article .