many in washington say 0 president bush will have to raise taxes to pay for his war on drugs . we have a better idea : dismantle hud to pay for the war on drugs . housing and urban development 's budget is $ 17 billion . from what we and the nation have been reading , the money is n't being spent very well . the single most important contribution 0 the government could make now to help the poor is to get the specter of drugs out of their neighborhoods . if that takes money , take it away from this discredited federal department . but of course the democrats pillorying hud in hearings and in the press have no such solution in mind . instead , they 're scrambling to protect the very programs at the heart of the hud scandal . this month , hud secretary jack kemp unveiled a series of proposed reforms 0 to improve management at hud . no doubt many of his ideas are worthy , but ultimately he is proposing to make fundamentally flawed programs work slightly more fairly and efficiently . congress is unlikely to go even that far . last week , secretary kemp ran into a buzzsaw of criticism from house banking committee members . they were appalled , for instance , that he wanted to target more of the $ 3 billion community development block grant -lrb- cdbg -rrb- program to low-income projects and zero out the notorious `` discretionary '' funds that have allowed hud officials to steer contracts to political cronies . these development grants mainly enrich developers who want to put up shopping centers and parking garages . they also give those in congress political credit for bringing home the pork , and so they are popular with such members as mary rose oakar . rep. oakar , a democrat from cleveland , wants a $ 6.9 million grant so cleveland can build an 18-story rock and roll hall of fame . she says 0 it 'd create 600 jobs and bring cleveland tourist revenue . hud says 0 the project does n't qualify , and mr. kemp says that rock 'n' roll musicians and the music industry ought to put up the money . at the hearing , rep. oakar started wailing about `` phoney baloney regulations '' that would stand between her and `` housing for downtown cleveland . '' rep. chalmers wylie , an ohio republican , rallied to the cause : `` i think 0 the gentlelady is making an important statement . the implication that if a congressman calls about a project in his district there 's something wrong , i think 0 is most unfortunate . '' we 're sure 0 some theologian can explain the difference between what the republican consultants have been doing with hud and what these gentleladies and gentlemen want to do with hud . our view is that given congress 's attitude toward hud , the place probably is beyond reform . for more than 50 years the federal government has tried various ways 0 to provide housing for the poor and revive cities . in the process hud has wasted untold billions , created slums and invited corruption . much of hud 's spending actually is disguised welfare for developers or the middle class . that includes the cdbg funds and the federal housing administration , which loans out money for private home mortgages and has just been discovered to be $ 4 billion in the hole . selling the fha 's loan portfolio to the highest bidder would save the taxpayers untold billions in future losses . some hud money actually does trickle down to the poor , and zeroing out housing middlemen would free up more money for public housing tenants to manage and even own their units . the rest ought to be used to clean out drugs from the neighbhorhoods . rival gangs have turned cities into combat zones . even suburban prince george 's county , md. , reported last week 0 there have been a record 96 killings there this year , most of them drug-related . innocent bystanders often are the victims . a man in a wheelchair was gunned down in the crossfire of a miami drug battle . a three-year-old brooklyn boy was used as a shield by a drug dealer . decent life in the inner cities wo n't be restored unless the government reclaims the streets from the drug gangs . until then , the billions 0 hud spends on inner-city housing simply is wasted . it 's still unclear whether secretary kemp wants to completely overhaul the engine room at hud or just tighten a few screws here and there . no doubt he believes 0 the place can be salvaged . having seen the hypocrisy with which congress has addressed the hud scandals , we disagree . it 's time 0 to scrap the politically infested spending machine 0 hud has become and channel the resources into the drug war .