the department of health and human services plans to extend its moratorium on federal funding of research involving fetal-tissue transplants . medical researchers believe 0 the transplantation of small amounts of fetal tissue into humans could help treat juvenile diabetes and such degenerative diseases as alzheimer 's , parkinson 's and huntington 's . but anti-abortionists oppose such research because they worry that the development of therapies using fetal-tissue transplants could lead to an increase in abortions . james mason , assistant secretary for health , said 0 the ban on federal funding of fetal-tissue transplant research `` should be continued indefinitely . '' he said 0 the ban wo n't stop privately funded tissue-transplant research or federally funded fetal-tissue research that does n't involve transplants . department officials say that hhs secretary louis sullivan will support dr. mason 's ruling , which will be issued soon in the form of a letter to the acting director of the national institutes of health . both dr. mason and dr. sullivan oppose federal funding for abortion , as does president bush , except in cases where a woman 's life is threatened . the controversy began in 1987 when the national institutes of health , aware of the policy implications of its research , asked for an hhs review of its plan to implant fetal tissue into the brain of a patient suffering from parkinson 's disease . the department placed a moratorium on the research , pending a review of scientific , legal and ethical issues . a majority of an nih-appointed panel recommended late last year that the research continue under carefully controlled conditions , but the issue became embroiled in politics as anti-abortion groups continued to oppose federal funding . the dispute has hampered the administration 's efforts to recruit prominent doctors 0 to fill prestigious posts at the helm of the nih and the centers for disease control . several candidates have withdrawn their names from consideration after administration officials asked them for their views on abortion and fetal-tissue transplants . antonio novello , whom mr. bush nominated to serve as surgeon general , reportedly has assured the administration that she opposes abortion . dr. novello is deputy director of the national institute of child health and human development . some researchers have charged that the administration is imposing new ideological tests for top scientific posts . earlier this week , dr. sullivan tried to defuse these charges by stressing that candidates 0 to head the nih and the cdc will be judged by `` standards of scientific and administrative excellence , '' not politics . but the administration 's handling of the fetal-tissue transplant issue disturbs many scientists . `` when scientific progress moves into uncharted ground , there has to be a role for society to make judgments about its applications , '' says myron genel , associate dean of the yale medical school . `` the disturbing thing about this abortion issue is that the debate has become polarized , so that no mechanism exists '' for finding a middle ground . yale is one of the few medical institutions conducting privately funded research on fetal-tissue transplants . but dr. genel warns that dr. mason 's ruling may discourage private funding . `` the unavailability of federal funds , and the climate in which the decision was made , certainly do n't provide any incentive for one of the more visible foundations to provide support , '' he said . despite the flap over transplants , federal funding of research involving fetal tissues will continue on a number of fronts . `` such research may ultimately result in the ability to regenerate damaged tissues or to turn off genes that cause cancer '' or to regulate genes that cause down 's syndrome , the leading cause of mental retardation , according to an nih summary . the nih currently spends about $ 8 million annually on fetal-tissue research out of a total research budget of $ 8 billion .