when walter yetnikoff , the president of sony corp. 's cbs records , last month told producer peter guber that sony was about to make a $ 3.4 billion bid for columbia pictures and needed someone 0 to run the studio , mr. guber jumped at the chance . within two days , he was on his way to new york and tokyo to meet with top brass at sony . and before the week was out , sony had offered mr. guber and his partner , jon peters , the most lucrative employment contracts in the history of the movie business . not only that , sony also agreed to give them a stake in columbia 's future profits and buy their company , guber peters entertainment co. , for $ 200 million , almost 40 % more than the market value of the company . there was just one sticking point : the two had a prior commitment . just seven months earlier , they had signed a five-year exclusive contract to make movies for warner bros. for which they had just produced the smash hit `` batman . '' but mr. guber figured that warner communications inc. chairman steven ross , would empathize and let the producers go , knowing 0 the sony offer was `` the culmination of a life 's work . '' he figured wrong . last week , following fruitless settlement talks , warner , now merging with time inc. , filed a $ 1 billion breach of contract suit in los angeles superior court against both sony and guber peters . sony promptly countersued , charging warner with trying to sabotage its acquisitions and hurt its efforts to enter the u.s. movie business . the accusations of lying and duplicity are flying thick and fast on both sides : as one sony executive puts it , `` it 's world war iii . '' that two successful producers who are n't all that well known outside hollywood could occasion such a clash of corporate titans suggests how desperate the quest for proven talent is in the movie business . and they are a very odd team in any case . mr. guber was raised in boston and educated in new york . he is a lawyer with a string of academic degrees . mr. peters is a high-school dropout who came to fame as barbra streisand 's hairdresser . yet , they are far and away the most prolific producers in hollywood . and despite their share of duds , they make movies that make money . that is a skill 0 sony badly needs -- and warner is loath to lose . although columbia had a good summer with `` ghostbusters ii '' and `` when harry met sally , '' rivals such as warner , paramount pictures , walt disney co. and universal studios have been thrashing columbia at the box office . after five years of management turmoil , with four different studio heads , columbia sorely needs a stable , savvy team 0 to restore its credibility and get it back in the business of making hits . mr. guber and mr. peters are n't universally loved in hollywood but they are well connected . their stock in trade as `` executive producers '' is sniffing out hot properties , locking them up and then getting big studios to bankroll and distribute them . sometimes mr. guber and mr. peters do little more than grab the first draft of a screenplay for a `` flashdance , '' or buy rights to a best seller such as `` the color purple . '' it falls to others to do the writing , directing and producing . with mgm\/ua 's `` rainman , '' for instance , messrs. guber and peters had virtually nothing 0 to do with day-to-day production , but their names still appear in big letters on the credits , and they are inevitably associated with its success . sometimes , as with `` batman , '' the pair really do make the film . in that case , guber peters acquired the rights in 1979 , nursed the movie through a dozen scripts , and were on the set in london for 11 months hovering over the most minute changes in casting and production . `` they 're the best production talent around , '' says brian de palma , beholden to guber peters for hiring him to direct the warner movie of tom wolfe 's novel `` bonfire of the vanities . '' on that film , which is to start shooting in a few months , `` they 've been very much involved , hiring talent and discussing the development of the script . and when you 're making a movie this big , you need all the help 0 you can get , '' mr. de palma adds . `` i wish 0 they were around 24 hours a day . '' and some movies seem to have been hurt by their inattention . warner executives blame mr. guber 's and mr. peters 's lack of involvement in `` caddyshack ii '' for casting and production problems and the film 's ultimate dismal failure . `` we 've had a few bombs , '' admits mr. peters . `` but by and large this company has only been profitable . '' he says 0 his company 's prowess at packaging and marketing `` is why we 'll be good at columbia . we practically ran our own studio . '' longtime hollywood associates describe mr. guber as the intellectual powerhouse of the two , a man with a flair for deal-making and marketing . `` peter is a major piece of hollywood manpower who has really earned his success , '' says robert bookman , an agent at creative artists agency . mark johnson , the producer of `` rainman , '' chimes in : `` he has a great ability to hire terrific people and delegate authority ... . it 's no accident that they 've been able to develop such successful material . '' mr. peters , on the other hand , has fewer fans in hollywood , and his detractors like to characterize him as something of a hot-tempered bully . he gets better reviews as a creative whiz , an enthusiast , an idea man . he also had to fight harder for credibility than his partner did . barbra streisand made him famous . he cut her hair . he lived with her . he came to produce her records and her movies -- `` a star is born '' and `` the main event . '' thrice married but now single , mr. peters got plenty of ink last summer for an on-set romance with actress kim basinger during the making of `` batman . '' mr. guber , by contrast , has been married to one woman for more than 20 years . but for all their intellectual and stylistic differences , they make the perfect `` good cop , bad cop '' team , hollywood associates say 0 . `` peter is the bright , sympathetic guy when you 're doing a deal , '' says one agent . `` if there 's a problem , peter disappears , and all of a sudden jon shows up . '' mr. guber and mr. peters rub many people in hollywood the wrong way . producers don simpson and jerry bruckheimer , who shepherded `` flashdance '' through several scripts and ultimately produced the movie , bristle when messrs. guber and peters take credit for the film . says mr. simpson : `` the script was unreadable . we reinvented it . we are the producers of that movie . they got a small piece of the net profits and a screen credit '' as executive producers . when roger birnbaum , an executive who worked for guber peters in the early 1980s , left to take a job as head of production at the united artists studio , they made him forfeit all credits and financial interest in the films 0 he had helped develop , including `` rainman '' and `` batman . '' mr. peters acknowledges that and says 0 it 's not unlike the situation 0 he and mr. guber are in with warner . `` i was upset with roger , i fumpered and schmumpered , '' says mr. peters . `` but he wanted to pursue his own dream , and he went . '' still , mr. birnbaum says 0 his relationship with guber peters was `` one of the most successful 0 i 've had in hollywood . '' the two `` have a wonderful chemistry -- jon is very impulsive , and peter is very compulsive , '' adds 0 mr. birnbaum , who is now head of production at news corp. 's 20th century fox film co . `` jon peters will come barreling into a room , say 0 he 's got a great idea , and be gone . peter will take the kernel of that idea and make it grow into something specific ... . '' mr. birnbaum recalls that mr. guber and mr. peters shifted into high gear a few years back upon learning that they had competition for the story of the murdered naturalist dian fossey , which became `` gorillas in the mist . '' he says , `` within a few weeks , we made deals with the government of rwanda and everyone who had ever met or talked to dian fossey . i think 0 peter even made some deals with the gorillas . '' universal studios was working on a competing film , but the studio and its producers ultimately agreed to co-produce the film with guber peters and warner . more recently , guber peters beat out a dozen other producers , reportedly including robert redford and ted turner , for rights to the life story of chico mendes , the murdered brazilian union leader who fought developers in the amazon rain forest . messrs. guber and peters assiduously courted the man 's widow for months , showing her a tape of `` gorillas in the mist '' to impress her with the quality of their work . money helped , too . ultimately , they paid more than $ 1 million for the rights . -lrb- the sale caused a rift between the widow and some of her husband 's followers . some of the money will go to the chico mendes foundation , but it is n't earmarked for groups trying to save the rain forest . -rrb- it 's hardly astonishing -lrb- given the men 's track record -rrb- that sony wants mr. guber and mr. peters . but it is puzzling to some hollywood executives that sony rushed to hire them without clearing up the warner situation first . some note that sony might have saved itself some trouble by just hiring mr. guber and letting mr. peters stay on to fulfill the warner contract . but though `` people in town may ask why guber needs peters , it 's good to have a partner , and obviously the chemistry works , '' says 0 steven tisch , a producer who once worked for mr. guber . `` this business is n't about personalities at the end of the day -- it s about whether the ink is red or black . in the case of peter and jon , the ink has been very , very black . '' mr. guber got his start in the movie business at columbia two decades ago . recruited from new york university 's mba program , he rose within two years to head of production , overseeing such films as `` the way 0 we were , '' `` taxi driver , '' `` tommy '' and `` shampoo . '' in 1976 , he teamed up with record producer neil bogart in casablanca records and filmworks -- later called polygram pictures -- where they produced such hits as as `` the deep , '' and `` midnight express . '' in 1980 , mr. guber got together with mr. peters , by then a successful producer in his own right , after the death of mr. bogart . while guber peters produced a number of hits for warner and others , their record was n't always so impressive . among their clinkers were `` the legend of billie jean , '' `` visionquest , '' `` clue '' and `` clan of the cave bear . '' and the failures make it possible for warner in its current lawsuit to paint the producers as ingrates . the studio says 0 it stuck with them `` even in the early years when the creative partnership was not particularly profitable for warner . '' mr. guber replies that `` this is a goliath , this time warner , trying to chew up two fellows who have done only well for them for a long period of time . '' mr. guber and mr. peters maintain that executives at warner have always known of their ambitions to run a major entertainment powerhouse , but that warner never felt threatened until they linked up with sony . `` from the beginning , -lcb- they -rcb- knew 0 we had a goal and a dream , '' says mr. guber . on a number of occasions , he adds 0 , he tried to get warner to buy guber peters outright . `` they always listened , but they never acted , '' mr. guber says . in 1987 , mr. guber and mr. peters contributed their company 's assets in exchange for a 28 % stake in barris entertainment , a small-fry tv production company controlled by giant industries inc. chairman burt sugarman . in july a year later , warner agreed to release the producers from their old contract when messrs. guber , peters and sugarman made a $ 100 million offer to buy 25 % of mgm\/ua . mr. guber and mr. peters planned to run the nearly dormant mgm studio , and the two even tried to interest warner bros . ' president terry semel in becoming a partner after he advised them on the deal . but the mgm plan collapsed just two weeks later . mr. guber and mr. peters say 0 they got a look at the books and balked at the price . their relationship with mr. sugarman soured shortly thereafter . last may , he sold his 24 % stake in barris to a passive australian investor and barris was renamed guber peters entertainment co . meanwhile , mr. guber and mr. peters had agreed to extend their warner agreement with the new five-year exclusive contract . the new deal was considered the most generous of its kind , both financially and in terms of creative freedom . but it paled by comparison to what sony was to offer last month : the chance , at last , to run a major studio , about $ 50 million in deferred compensation , up to 10 % of columbia 's future cash flow , 8 % of the future appreciation of columbia 's market value , and annual salaries of $ 2.7 million for each . the producers ' 28 % share of publicly held guber peters would net them an additional $ 50 million . sony also agreed to indemnify the producers against any liability to warner . sony is paying a hefty price for a company that had revenue of only $ 42 million last year . and earnings have been erratic . in the the latest quarter , thanks in part to `` batman , '' guber peters earned $ 5.8 million , or 50 cents a share , compared to a loss of $ 6.8 million , or 62 cents a share , in last year 's quarter . guber peters stock , which traded as low as $ 6 a share last year , closed yesterday at $ 16.625 . the two sides now are accusing each other of lying . mr. guber and mr. peters claim 0 they have an oral agreement with warner executives that allows them to terminate their contract should the opportunity to run a major studio arise . but in affidavits filed yesterday in the los angeles court , mr. ross , warner bros. chairman robert daly and president semel deny that such an oral agreement was ever made . warner , in its court filings , calls it `` a piece of fiction created for this litigation . '' mr. daly in his affidavit acknowledges that warner agreed to release the producers last year to take over mgm but says 0 that situation was altogether different . for one thing , according to mr. daly , the producers requested a release in advance . moreover , the old contract was about to expire , and the lineup of guber peters pictures for warner was n't as strong as it is now . warner itself was in negotiations with mgm over certain movie and other rights , and it was `` in warner 's interest to accommodate mgm\/ua , guber and peters by permitting them to become mgm executives , '' mr. daly said in his affidavit . warner obviously does n't think that it is in its own interests to let mr. guber and mr. peters go off to columbia . at the very least , mr. ross clearly sees an opportunity to use the two men to get a pound of flesh from sony . during settlement talks , for example , warner demanded such things as cable tv rights to columbia movies and columbia 's interest in the studio 0 it jointly owns with warner , according to executives involved in the talks . in any settlement , warner is almost certain to demand rights to most of the 50 or so projects 0 mr. guber and mr. peters have locked up for the next few years , notably sequels to `` batman . '' mr. guber and mr. peters refuse to concede that they may have made a tactical error in accepting the sony offer before taking it up with warner . and they say 0 there are plenty of precedents in hollywood for letting people out of contracts . the last time 0 columbia pictures was looking for a studio chief , they note 0 , warner released producer david puttnam from his contract , then took him back after he was subsequently fired by his bosses at columbia . in his affidavit filed yesterday , warner 's mr. ross indicated 0 he is n't buying any such argument : `` if sony succeeds here , no written contract in hollywood will be worth the paper 0 it 's written on .