office market weakens in overbuilt northeast the northeast office market is feeling serious aftereffects of the giddy overbuilding of the 1980s . foreclosures and other signs of financial distress , most often associated with the real estate market in the southwest , are surfacing in the suburban office market of the once thriving northeast . some projects are now in the hands of lenders , including a 425,000-square-foot office facility in little falls , n.j . the owners of a 32-acre hotel and office complex in king of prussia , pa. , have advertised for new financing . rising office vacancy rates in fairfield county , conn. , have builders and bankers scrambling to restructure loans . and in suburban boston , developers are bracing for cutbacks in the computer industry , a major user of office space . many troubled properties have n't been foreclosed on and are hard 0 to identify , says 0 albert i. berger , who heads the secaucus , n.j. , office of helmsley-spear inc. , a real estate brokerage . owners are voluntarily -- and quietly -- turning over properties to lenders through `` deeds in lieu of foreclosure . '' often , developers stay on as property manager . real estate analyst lloyd lynford says 0 the northeast 's distress is masked by relatively low vacancy rates . but in today 's overbuilt market , tenants have many choices and are negotiating low rents that squeeze building owners . on average , mr. lynford says 0 , it now takes three to 3 1\/2 years to fill new office space , compared with 2 1\/2 years in 1988 . beverly hills comes to suburban tokyo why should the japanese cross the pacific to buy american real estate when they can simply recreate it at home ? tokyu development corp. is spending $ 500 million to build american-style luxury homes in suburban tokyo with rarely seen back yards , front yards , swimming pools and tennis courts . the japanese company hired richardson nagy martin , a newport beach , calif. , architectural firm , to design what the japanese press has dubbed `` the beverly hills of tokyo . '' instead of japan 's typical small homes clustered on narrow streets with no sidewalks , the new `` one hundred hills '' development will offer 65 houses on half-acre lots . that 's more than 10 times the usual housing site size . buyers with $ 6 million 0 to spend can select from 11 designs , including a mediterranean-inspired california style , a traditional yankee look and designs inspired by midwestern architect frank lloyd wright . there are spacious living rooms and baths , plus a master grandparents suite and a foyer for removing shoes to suit japanese life styles . exteriors are faced with brick , wood or stone , but the homes are made of steel-reinforced concrete . `` we were disappointed 0 we could n't use wood , '' says architect walter j. richardson , `` but the japanese only want stronger materials . '' at $ 1,000 per square foot , the japanese want the feeling of indestructibility , he explains 0 , not to mention protection from possible earthquake damage . housing developers try brand-name buildings residential builders , faced with a more competitive market , are turning to a traditional consumer marketing technique to establish brand-name identity . `` one of the difficulties 0 people in real estate have is that each product is like starting a new company , or starting a new line in the fashion business , '' says l. robert lieb president of mountain development corp. in west paterson , n.j . so he 's using `` river '' in many project names . `` it 'll never be like what bristol-myers does , '' he adds , `` but it helps establish recognition with the public -- and with banks . '' weingarten-siegel group inc. of manalapan , n.j. , has built cross creek pointe , allegro pointe and other pointes in new jersey . caspi development corp of armonk , n.y. , has developed two apartment buildings called classic and plans a third . developer steve caspi says 0 the same brand name indicates consistent quality , `` regardless of location , design or amenities . '' the leader in real estate brand names is developer ara hovnanian . his entry-price condos are labeled society hill . beacon hill is for `` move-up '' town houses , and nob hill , for single-family houses . because of standardized designs , mr. hovnanian says 0 , `` a buyer can visualize society hill regardless of where it is . '' quake not likely to jolt the commercial market the earthquake in san francisco has sent few tremors through the hearts of real estate investors . `` i think 0 there 's a disease called buyer 's regret , and i 'm sure 0 it 's running rampant at this moment , but it gets cured in a short period of time , '' says kenneth leventhal , co-managing partner of kenneth leventhal & co. , a los angeles accounting firm specializing in real estate . `` if i were buying a building in san francisco now the first thing 0 i 'd do is insist on a structural inspection , then i 'd delay a little , stall a little . '' but like other real estate professionals accustomed to california 's quake risks , mr. leventhal anticipates little long-term change in the city 's commercial real estate market . still , local builders are eager to tell the world that most of san francisco does n't look like the tv images of destruction . planners of the urban land institute real estate conference this week hastily added a panel on the quake 's effects . `` the message is 0 we build 'em right , '' says peter bedford , a california developer and officer at urban land institute . `` there 's seven million square feet of space that 's doing great .