wall street is just about ready to line the bird cage with paper stocks . for three years , a healthy economy and the export-boosting effects of a weak dollar propelled sales and earnings of the big paper companies to record levels . as the good times rolled they more than doubled their prices for pulp , a raw material used in all sorts of paper , to $ 830 a metric ton this past spring from $ 380 a ton at the start of 1986 . but now the companies are getting into trouble because they undertook a record expansion program while they were raising prices sharply . third-quarter profits fell at several companies . `` put your money in a good utility or bank stock , not a paper company , '' advises george adler of smith barney . other analysts are nearly as pessimistic . gary palmero of oppenheimer & co. expects a 30 % decline in earnings between now and 1991 for `` commodity-oriented '' paper companies , which account for the majority of the industry . robert schneider of duff & phelps sees paper-company stock prices falling 10 % to 15 % in 1990 , perhaps 25 % if there 's a recession . paper companies concede that business has been off recently . but they attribute much of the weakness to customer inventory reductions . generally they maintain that , barring a recession and a further strengthening of the dollar against foreign currencies , the industry is n't headed for a prolonged slump . `` it wo n't be an earthshaking drop , '' a weyerhaeuser spokesman says . last week mr. adler lowered his rating from hold to `` avoid '' on boise cascade , champion international , great northern nekoosa , international paper , louisiana pacific and weyerhaeuser . oppenheimer 's mr. palmero , meanwhile , is steering clear of gaylord container , stone container and federal paper board . mr. schneider is cool to georgia pacific and abitibi-price . lawrence ross of painewebber would avoid union camp . the companies in question believe 0 the analysts are too pessimistic . great northern nekoosa said , `` the odds of the dire predictions about us being right are small . '' international paper emphasizes that it is better positioned than most companies for the coming overcapacity because its individual mills can make more than one grade of paper . a boise-cascade spokesman referred to a speech by chairman john fery , in which he said that markets generally are stable , although some risk of further price deterioration exists . stone container chairman roger stone said that , unlike for some other paper products , demand for stone 's principal commodity , unbleached containerboard , remains strong . he expects the price for that product to rise even more next year . gaylord container said 0 analysts are skeptical of it because it 's carrying a lot of debt . champion international said , `` we 've gotten our costs down and we 're better positioned for any cyclical downturn than we 've ever been . '' louisiana pacific and georgia pacific said 0 a number of other analysts are recommending them because of their strong wood-products business . federal paper board said , `` we 're not as exposed as the popular perception of us . '' the company explained that its main product , bleached paperboard , which goes into some advertising materials and white boxes , historically does n't have sharp price swings . because the stock prices of some paper companies already reflect an expected profit slump , painewebber 's mr. ross says 0 he thinks that next year the share prices of some companies may fall at most only 5 % to 10 % . a company such as federal paper board may be overly discounted and looks `` tempting '' to him , he says 0 , though he is n't yet recommending the shares . wall street is n't avoiding everything connected with paper . mr. palmero recommends temple-inland , explaining that it is `` virtually the sole major paper company not undergoing a major capacity expansion , '' and thus should be able to lower long-term debt substantially next year . a temple-inland spokesman said 0 the company expects record earnings in 1989 , and `` we 're still pretty bullish '' on 1990 . the analysts say 0 their gloomy forecasts have a flip side . some take a warm view of consumer-oriented paper companies , which buy pulp from the commodity producers and should benefit from the expected declines in pulp prices . estimates on how much pulp prices will fall next year currently run between $ 150 and $ 250 a metric ton . analysts agree that the price drop should especially benefit the two big tissue makers , scott paper and kimberly-clark . a spokesman for scott says that assuming 0 the price of pulp continues to soften , `` we should do well .