u.s. trade representative carla hills said 0 the first dispute-settlement panel set up under the u.s.-canadian `` free trade '' agreement has ruled that canada 's restrictions on exports of pacific salmon and herring violate the accord . mrs. hills said 0 the u.s. and canada have until nov. 13 to resolve the dispute . if a solution is n't reached by then , she said , the u.s. would have the right to suspend some trade concessions to canada equivalent in value to the losses suffered by u.s. fish-processing companies in alaska and the pacific northwest . however , in ottawa , canadian trade minister john crosbie said 0 the dispute-settlement panel accepted the `` legitimacy of canada 's position on the use of these landing requirements to conserve and manage these important fisheries . '' questioned about the seeming contradiction in the u.s. and canadian government views of the panel 's report , an aide for mrs. hills said 0 the panel had clearly ruled that the canadian trade restrictions `` are illegal . '' the u.s. trade representative declined to put a dollar estimate on the losses resulting from the canadian export restrictions . canada initially had an export prohibition that was replaced by regulations requiring that such fish had to be brought ashore in british columbia by commercial fishermen prior to export . this action was defended by the canadian government on conservation grounds . mrs. hills said yesterday that the dispute-settlement panel rejected this canadian government argument . `` we fully expect that canada will comply with the panel 's ruling '' that the `` landing requirement '' also must be ended , she said 0 . earlier , an international panel set up under the rules of the general agreement on tariffs and trade in geneva determined that the original canadian fish-export restrictions violated gatt rules . mrs. hills said 0 the u.s. wo n't accept any delays after nov. 13 because u.s. fish-processing firms enter into contracts in the fall to purchase the next season 's catch . she said 0 the canadian restrictions must be removed before such contracts are concluded .