for cathay pacific airways , the smooth ride may be ending . the first signs of trouble came last month when the hong kong carrier , a subsidiary of swire pacific ltd. , posted a 5 % drop in operating profit for the first six months and warned that margins will remain under pressure for the rest of the year . securities analysts , many of whom scrapped their buy recommendations after seeing cathay 's interim figures , believe 0 more jolts lie ahead . fuel and personnel costs are rising , and tourism in and through hong kong remains clouded by china 's turmoil since the june 4 killings in beijing . in addition , delivery delays for the first two of as many as 28 boeing 747-400s that the carrier has ordered have raised costs because personnel had been hired to man the planes . and tough competition in the air-freight market is cutting into an important sideline . there also is concern that once hong kong reverts to china 's sovereignty in 1997 , cathay will be forced to play second fiddle to china 's often-disparaged flag carrier , civil aviation administration of china , or caac . `` the sense is 0 we would never be in a position again where everything works for us the way 0 it did before , '' says rod eddington , cathay 's commercial director . sarah hall , an analyst at james capel -lrb- far east -rrb- ltd. , says 0 there is n't much 0 cathay can do about rising costs for jet fuel , hong kong 's tight labor market , or the strengthening of the local currency , which is pegged to the u.s. dollar . these factors are further complicated by the airline 's push to transform itself from a regional carrier to an international one , ms. hall says 0 . ms. hall expects cathay 's profit to grow around 13 % annually this year and next . in 1988 , it earned $ 2.82 billion hong kong -lrb- us$ 361.5 million -rrb- on revenue of hk$ 11.79 billion . cathay is taking several steps to bolster business . one step is to beef up its fleet . in addition to aircraft from boeing co. , cathay announced earlier this year an order for as many as 20 airbus a330-300s . the expansion , which could cost as much as us$ 5.7 billion over the next eight years , will expand the fleet to about 43 planes by 1991 , up from 30 at the end of last year , according to sun hung kai securities ltd . the fuel-efficient airbus planes will be used largely to replace cathay 's aging fleet of lockheed tristars for regional flights , while the boeing aircraft will be used on long-haul routes to europe and north america . cathay also is moving some of its labor-intensive data-processing operations outside hong kong . fierce bidding for young employees in hong kong is pushing up cathay 's labor costs by 20 % a year for low-level staff , while experienced , skilled employees are leaving the colony as part of the brain drain . some jobs already have been moved to australia , and there are plans to place others in canada . david bell , a spokesman for the airline , says 0 the move is partly aimed at retaining existing staff who are leaving to secure foreign passports ahead of 1997 . cathay is working to promote hong kong as a destination worth visiting on its own merits , rather than just a stopover . although the june 4 killings in beijing have hurt its china flights , cathay 's other routes have retained high load factors . mr. eddington regards promoting hong kong as an important part of attracting visitors from japan , south korea and taiwan , where the number of people looking to travel abroad has surged . there also has been speculation that cathay will be among the major private-sector participants in the hong kong government 's plans to build a new airport , with the carrier possibly investing in its own terminal . cathay officials decline to comment on the speculation . mr. eddington sees alliances with other carriers -- particularly cathay 's recent link with amr corp. 's american airlines -- as an important part of cathay 's strategy . but he emphasizes that cathay has n't any interest in swapping equity stakes with the u.s. carrier or with lufthansa , the west german airline with which it has cooperated for about a decade . analysts believe 0 cathay is approached for such swaps by other carriers on a regular basis , particularly as the popularity of share exchanges has grown among european carriers . `` we think 0 alliances are very important , '' mr. eddington says . `` but we 'd rather put funds into our own business rather than someone else 's . i 'm not sure 0 cross-ownership would necessarily make things smoother . '' in a pattern 0 it aims to copy in several key u.s. destinations , cathay recently announced plans to serve san francisco by flying into american airlines ' los angeles hub and routing continuing passengers onto a flight on the u.s. carrier . `` we 'll never have a big operation in the u.s. , and they 'll never have one as big as us in the pacific , '' mr. eddington says . `` but this way , american will coordinate good extensions to boston , new york , chicago and dallas . we 'll coordinate on this end to places like bangkok , singapore and manila . '' asian traffic , which currently accounts for 65 % of cathay 's business , is expected to continue as the carrier 's mainstay . cathay has long stated its desire to double its weekly flights into china to 14 , and it is applying to restart long-canceled flights into vietnam . further expansion into southern europe is also possible , says 0 mr. bell , the spokesman . while a large number of hong kong companies have reincorporated offshore ahead of 1997 , such a move is n't an option for cathay because it would jeopardize its landing rights in hong kong . and mr. eddington emphatically rules out a move to london : `` our lifeblood is hong kong traffic rights . '' he says 0 the airline is putting its faith in the sino-british agreement on hong kong 's return to china . a special section dealing with aviation rights states that landing rights for hong kong 's airlines , which include the smaller hong kong dragon airlines , will continue to be negotiated by hong kong 's government . but critics fret that post-1997 officials ultimately will be responsible to beijing . `` my feeling is 0 -lcb- cathay does n't -rcb- have a hope in the long run , '' says an analyst , who declines to be identified . `` cathay would love to keep going , but the general sense is 0 they 're going to have to do something . '' mr. eddington acknowledges that the carrier will have to evolve and adapt to local changes , but he feels that the sino-british agreement is firm ground 0 to build on for the foreseeable future . `` we 're confident that it protects our route structure , '' he says , `` and our ability to grow and prosper .