sun myung moon , the korean evangelist-industrialist who in 1954 founded the unification church , remains the mystery man behind a multimillion-dollar political and publishing operation based in this country and catering to the american right . but there may be less there than meets the eye . mr. moon planned to convert millions of americans to his unique brand of christianity -- in which he plays the role of old testament-style temporal , political messiah -- and then to make the u.s. part of a unified international theocracy . his original strategy -lrb- in itself a brilliant innovation for spreading a religion -rrb- was to create new economic enterprises each time 0 he wanted to extend and fund his various religious missions . tax-exempt airport and street-corner solicitations were intended only to provide start-up funds . more stable industries were to build an economically viable infrastructure for the moon movement in north america , as they had in japan and south korea . then he would move his movement to europe . but that was not to be . throughout the 1970s and early 1980s spokesmen for both the unification church and its opponents in the anticult movement gave wildly exaggerated membership figures . their legacy lives on . it is still common to read in the press that the church has 10,000 or more full-time american members and 25,000 `` associates . '' some estimates have gone as high as 80,000 members . but internal church documents clearly show that at its publicity-seeking heights , as when it organized a spectacular yankee stadium bicentennial rally in 1976 , there actually were only about 2,000 full-time unification church members in the u.s. mr. moon 's support for a watergate-beleaguered richard nixon , the koreagate scandal , and his prison sentence for income-tax evasion did not help the church 's recruitment efforts . defections , burnouts , and abduction `` deprogrammings '' kept member turnover high . that the membership number has even kept close to its 1976 size is the result of the `` graying '' of the church . many of the enthusiastic young `` moonies '' of the nixon era who remained faithful to father moon are now parents , producing new members by procreation rather than conversion . the reputed wealth of the unification church is another matter of contention . for a while in the 1970s it seemed 0 mr. moon was on a spending spree , with such purchases as the former new yorker hotel and its adjacent manhattan center ; a fishing\/processing conglomerate with branches in alaska , massachusetts , virginia and louisiana ; a former christian brothers monastery and the seagram family mansion -lrb- both picturesquely situated on the hudson river -rrb- ; shares in banks from washington to uruguay ; a motion picture production company , and newspapers , such as the washington times , the new york city tribune -lrb- originally the news world -rrb- , and the successful spanish-language noticias del mundo . yet these purchases can be misleading . most were obtained with huge inputs of church money from south korea and japan , minimum cash downpayments and sizable mortgages . those teams of young fund-raisers selling flowers , peanuts or begging outright at traffic intersections brought in somewhere near $ 20 million a year during the mid-to-late 1970s , but those revenues were a pittance compared to the costs of mr. moon 's lavish international conferences , speaking tours , and assorted land buys . only his factories in japan and korea , employing his followers at subsistence wages and producing everything from rifles to ginseng to expensive marble vases , kept the money flowing westward . virginia commonwealth university sociologist david bromley , who more than any other researcher has delved into the complex world of unificationist finances , has concluded that profitable operations in the u.s. have been the exceptions rather than the rule . likewise , journalists john burgess and michael isikoff of the washington post have estimated that at least $ 800 million was transferred from japan to the u.s. to deal with the church 's annual operating losses in this country . mr. moon 's two english-language u.s. newspapers illustrate the scope of this financial drain . start-up costs for the washington times alone were close to $ 50 million , and the total amount lost in this journalistic black hole was estimated at $ 150 million by 1984 . since then , moon 's organization has inaugurated a pair of high-quality glossy opinion magazines , the world and i and insight , which are a further drain . insiders say that not even their editors know for sure how much these show-piece publications , along with the newspapers , have cost mr. moon . many american church-owned businesses , such as a $ 30 million factory 0 to build fishing vessels , are defunct . some components of the american church had their budgets cut in half last year and again this year . the relatively small academic conferences that have attracted conservative guests -- and press scrutiny -- in recent years are much more narrowly targeted and austere than the thousand-person get-togethers in fancy digs and exotic locales of years past . i attended several of these in the dual role as a presenter of research findings as well as an investigator of my hosts . -lrb- mr. moon 's paragon house eventually even published three of my co-edited books on religion and politics . -rrb- according to veteran watchers of unificationist affairs , such as dr. j. gordon melton , director of the institute for the study of american religion , almost all operations are being drastically reduced as mr. moon now concentrates more on developing his empire in the far east . `` everything , '' one non-`` moonie '' senior consultant to the unification church recently told me in an interview , `` is going back to korea and japan . '' -lrb- europe had proved even less hospitable than north america . european politicians were less reluctant to have their governments investigate and harass new religions . -rrb- so mr. moon is in retreat , refocusing on the far east . south korea and japan continue to be profitable . moon 's tong'il industry conglomerate is now investing heavily in china , where church accountants have high hopes of expanding and attracting converts even in the wake of the bloody massacre in tiananmen square . panda motors is one such investment . according to senior consultants to the church , mr. moon has successfully negotiated a joint venture with the chinese government 0 to build an automobile-parts plant in guangdong province , an area of china with a substantial korean minority . mr. moon has agreed to put up $ 10 million a year for 25 years and keep the profits in china . in return , he has the government 's blessing to build churches and spread unificationism in that country . whatever respectability and ties to intellectuals and opinion-makers 0 the publications and conferences bring really are salvage -- not the rev. moon 's original final goals , but the ones for which he will have to settle . mr. shupe is co-author -lrb- with david g. bromley -rrb- of `` ` moonies ' in america : cult , church , and crusade '' and `` strange gods : the great american cult scare .