the head trader of chemical banking corp. 's interest-rate options group has left the company , following valuation errors that resulted in a $ 33 million charge against its third-quarter results . chemical said 0 steven edelson resigned recently , but one individual close to the situation said 0 the resignation was forced . mr. edelson could n't be reached for comment . a separate inquiry by chemical cleared mr. edelson of allegations that he had been lavishly entertained by a new york money broker . that inquiry has n't resolved similar allegations involving another chemical options trader . in other personnel changes stemming from problems in its options unit : -- chemical named james kennedy , a trader in swaps contracts for the bank , to assume mr. edelson 's duties and to be trading manager for derivative products , including swaps and interest-rate options . -- lee wakeman , vice president in charge of options research who discovered the valuation errors and was asked by senior management to straighten out the mess , resigned to take a position in asset and liability management at continental bank in chicago . mr. wakeman , whom chemical tried to keep , did n't return calls for comment . separately , chemical confirmed that it took an undisclosed charge in the second quarter for losses on forward-rate agreements involving foreign currency written by its branch in frankfurt , west germany . a chemical spokeswoman said 0 the second-quarter charge was `` not material '' and that no personnel changes were made as a result . the spokeswoman said 0 the frankfurt situation was `` totally different '' from problems in the interest-rate options unit . according to individuals familiar with the situation , the frankfurt loss stemmed from a computer program for calculating prices on forward-rate agreements that failed to envision an interest-rate environment where short-term rates were equal to or higher than long-term rates . while the incidents involving interest-rate options and forward-rate agreements are unrelated , some observers say 0 they echo a 1987 incident in which bankers trust new york corp. restated the value of its foreign exchange options contracts downward by about $ 80 million . these complex products require close monitoring because each must be valued separately in light of current market conditions . in an interest-rate options contract , a client pays a fee to a bank for custom-tailored protection against adverse interest-rate swings for a specified period . in a forward-rate agreement , a client agrees to an exchange rate on a future currency transaction . some competitors maintain 0 the interestrate option loss , in particular , may have resulted more from chemical 's taking large and often contrarian positions than a valuation problem . started three years ago , chemical 's interest-rate options group was a leading force in the field . from 1987 to 1988 , the value of chemical 's option contracts outstanding mushroomed to $ 37 billion from $ 17 billion . more importantly , the volume of options written exceeded those purchased by almost 2-to-1 . with such a lopsided book of options , traders say 0 , chemical was more vulnerable to erroneous valuation assumptions . the chemical spokeswoman said 0 the bank has examined its methodologies and internal controls . `` we consider our internal controls to have worked well , '' she said , adding that some procedures have been strengthened . its valuation methodologies , she said 0 , `` are recognized as some of the best on the street . not a lot was needed to be done .