silicon valley heaved a sigh of relief yesterday . though details were sketchy in the aftermath of the violent earthquake that shook the high-tech corridor along with the rest of the san francisco bay area , a spot check of computer makers turned up little , if any , potentially lingering damage to facilities or fabrication equipment . analysts and corporate officials said 0 they expected practically no long-term disruption in shipments from the valley of either hardware or software goods . intel corp. , advanced micro devices inc. and national semiconductor corp. were all up and running yesterday , though many workers were forced to stay home because of damaged roadways ; others elected to take the day off . `` these systems are more rugged than many people would believe , '' said thomas kurlak , who tracks the computer industry for merrill lynch research . `` it 's not the end of the world if you shake them up a little bit . '' other companies , including international business machines corp. and hewlett-packard co. , completely idled their operations because of tuesday evening 's temblor , which registered 6.9 on the richter scale . personnel spent the morning inspecting buildings for structural weaknesses , mopping up water from broken pipes and clearing ceiling tiles and other debris from factory floors . still , many were confident that `` in a day or two , everything should be back to normal , '' according to a spokeswoman for the semiconductor industry association , based in cupertino . ibm , for instance , said 0 it anticipates returning to a normal work schedule by the weekend at its san jose plant , which puts out disk drives for the 3090 family of mainframes . a hewlett-packard spokeswoman said that , while `` things are a big mess , '' some 18,000 valley employees have been called back to work today . apple computer added that it was being `` cautiously optimistic , '' despite not yet closely eyeballing all of its 50 buildings in the region . even the carefully calibrated machinery in its giant fremont plant , to the north of the valley , was believed to be undamaged . sun microsystems inc. and tandem computers inc. also signaled that they should recover quickly . digital equipment corp. , with major facilities in santa clara , cupertino , palo alto and mountain view , said that all of its engineering and manufacturing sites had reported to corporate headquarters in maynard , mass. , tuesday night . none sustained `` significant '' damage , a spokesman said 0 , adding that `` the delicate manufacturing process machines were checked and were all found to be operating normally . '' for many companies , of course , there is still a slew of nagging problems 0 to grapple with , some of which have the potential to become quite serious . for example , a spokesman for advanced micro devices said 0 the sunnyvale chip maker is worried about blackouts . a sudden surge or drop in electric power could ruin integrated circuits being built . but , given what might have happened to the fragile parts that are at the heart of the microelectronics business , the bulk of valley companies seemed to be just about shouting hosannas . several factors apparently spared the valley -- a sprawling suburban stretch from san jose to palo alto -- from the kind of impact felt in san francisco , an hour 's drive north . for one thing , buildings there tend to be newer and , thus , in step with the latest safety codes . also , the soil in the valley is solid , unlike the landfill of san francisco 's downtown marina district , which was hit with fires and vast destruction . in addition , some microelectronics companies said 0 they were prepared for tremulous conditions like tuesday 's . their machine tools are even bolted to the shop floor . intel said that over the past decade , it has installed computer sensors and shutoff valves , sensitive to the shake of an earthquake , in the pipes that snake through its plants . like other large valley companies , intel also noted that it has factories in several parts of the nation , so that a breakdown at one location should n't leave customers in a total pinch . that 's certainly good news for such companies as compaq computer corp. , houston , which has only a four-day supply of microprocessors from the valley on hand because of a just-in-time manufacturing approach that limits the buildup of inventory . compaq said 0 it foresees no difficulties in obtaining parts in the immediate future . computer makers were scrambling to help customers recover from the disaster . digital equipment has set up disaster-recovery response centers in dallas , atlanta and colorado springs , colo . these units were handling calls both from people in the san francisco area and from computers themselves , which are set to dial digital automatically when trouble arises . they then run remotely controlled self-diagnostic programs . digital also said 0 it has dispatched teams of technicians to california . meanwhile , several other major installations around the valley -- america 's center of high-tech -- said 0 they , too , fared as well as could be expected . lawrence livermore national laboratory , where the energy department tests and conducts research on nuclear weapons , had only `` superficial damage , '' a spokesman said 0 . at lockheed corp. 's missiles and space systems group in sunnyvale , about 40 miles south of san francisco , workers were asked to head to work yesterday after it was realized that `` there were no show-stoppers '' in the 150-plus buildings on its one-square-mile campus . several engineering and research offices needed closer scrutiny to make sure 0 they were n't in danger of crumbling , but `` the bulk of the place is in pretty good shape , '' an official said 0 . one of lockheed 's most lucrative sectors -- accounting for more than half the aerospace company 's $ 10.59 billion in sales in 1988 -- the missiles and space group is the prime pentagon contractor on the trident ii ballistic missile . it also generates pieces of the missile shield called the strategic defense initiative . fortunately , the hubble space telescope -- set to be launched on the shuttle next year in a search for distant solar systems and light emitted 14 billion years ago from the farthest reaches of the universe -- was moved from sunnyvale to the kennedy space center in florida at the beginning of october . john r. wilke contribued to this article .