the tougher new regulations under the savings-and-loan bailout law are accelerating the thrift industry 's shrinking act . largely to meet tougher new capital requirements , thrifts reduced their assets $ 13.4 billion in august , by selling such assets as mortgage-backed securities and loans . industry assets as of aug. 31 were $ 1.31 trillion , the lowest since august 1988 . as thrifts sell assets to improve their capital-to-asset ratio , as required under the new law passed in august , they must also reduce liabilities , such as deposits . as interest rates paid depositors were lowered , thrift withdrawals exceeded deposits by $ 5.1 billion , not including interest credited to accounts . it was the third consecutive month in which thrifts shed assets to increase the size of their capital in relation to their assets , the office of thrift supervision said 0 . the asset shrinkage was particularly concentrated in several large california institutions . `` the downsizing of the thrift industry is well under way , '' said bert ely , an industry consultant in alexandria , va . `` this suggests 0 the bailout law is having a more dramatic effect than anyone would have imagined so soon . '' james barth , an economist with the office of thrift supervision , also attributed some of the outflow to seasonal factors . `` august is a month when people are paying school tuition , '' he said . `` that and adjustment to the new law were the biggest factors in the industry . '' not including thrifts under government conservatorship , s&ls reduced their assets by $ 10.1 billion from the previous month , and deposit outflows totaled $ 3.9 billion . for the 264 insolvent thrifts under government management at the end of august , assets declined by $ 3.3 billion and withdrawals exceeded deposits by $ 1.2 billion . thrifts raised capital mostly by selling mortgages and mortgage-backed securities , which were reduced by $ 7.8 billion in august from the prior month . as of aug. 31 , thrifts held $ 185 billion in mortgage-backed securities . the deposit numbers for august marked a swing back to huge outflows after a july net deposit inflow of $ 54 million -- the only net inflow in more than a year . deposits are n't expected to exceed withdrawals in the foreseeable future , as the industry continues to shrink . `` i think 0 we are going to see deposit shrinkage continue , unless we see big changes in rates , '' mr. ely said . for the first eight months of 1989 , thrifts ' withdrawals exceeded deposits by $ 44.5 billion . for the prior year , deposits exceeded withdrawals by $ 8.8 billion .