ima holdings corp. completed its $ 3 billion acquisition of american medical international inc. , purchasing 63 million shares , or 86 % , of the los angeles-based health-care services concern for $ 26.50 a share . the price also includes assumption of about $ 1.4 billion in debt . ima is a group that includes first boston corp. and the pritzker family of chicago through the leveraged buy-out fund harry gray melvyn klein & partners . harry j. gray and melvyn n. klein , along with five other ima designees , were named to join american medical 's 10-member board . the completion of the merger agreement follows months of twists and turns . in january , american medical brought in a new chief executive officer , richard a. gilleland , 45 , who will remain as chairman , president and chief executive . a few days later , american medical announced sharply lower earnings , taking charges of $ 24 million for insurance reserves and canceled real estate leases . in march , american medical received a $ 24-a-share offer to take the company private from an investor group including large holder m. lee pearce . it also was considering a restructuring 0 to help boost the stock price . a group including several members of the the bass family of texas urged the company to take some steps 0 to maximize shareholder value . the following month , the company put itself up for sale . it received more offers , but the auction was surprisingly won by ima , which bid $ 28 a share and asked mr. gilleland to stay on as an equity participant . he indicated that some assets might be sold off to service the debt . then , after extending its offer four times waiting for a congressional tax ruling , ima early this month lowered its offer to $ 26.50 a share amid turbulence in the junk bond market . american medical accepted the offer , meanwhile indicating 0 it had heard from two other suitors . but they never materialized and ima completed the purchase yesterday . other new board members include john s. harrison and mark a. adley of first boston , james f. lyons , william s. goldberg and harold s. handelsman .