last week the british displayed unusual political immaturity . the chancellor of the exchequer , nigel lawson , resigned because prime minister thatcher would not fire her trusted adviser sir alan walters . the opposition labor party leader , neil kinnock , in a display of the male chauvinism typical of the british lower class , denounced mrs. thatcher for having an independent mind and refusing to heed the men in her cabinet . the british press , making a mountain out of a molehill , precipitated an unnecessary economic crisis by portraying mrs. thatcher as an autocrat who had thrown economic policy into confusion by driving a respected figure from her government . behind the silly posturing lies a real dispute . mr. lawson and his european-minded colleagues want the british pound formally tied to the west german mark . sir alan considers this an ill-advised and costly policy . as there is an effort to `` anchor the dollar '' either to gold or other currencies , the dispute is worth examining . until his resignation , mr. lawson had been conducting british monetary policy as if the pound were tied to the mark . when mrs. thatcher cut the top tax rate to 40 % , mr. lawson flooded the country with money to prevent the pound from rising against the mark . as a result , he reignited the inflation that mrs. thatcher , through a long and costly effort , had subdued . with inflation surging , the pound began falling against the mark . to keep the exchange rate pegged , mr. lawson tightened monetary policy and pushed interest rates up to 15 % . this doubled the mortgage interest rates of the many new homeowners that mrs. thatcher 's policies had created , producing widespread disaffection and pushing labor ahead in the polls . instead of realizing his mistake in letting the exchange rate dominate both british economic policy and mrs. thatcher 's political fortune , mr. lawson pushed for tying the pound formally to the mark by entering the european monetary system , which subordinates all member currencies to german monetary policy . this put mrs. thatcher in a bind . the concept of european integration is one of those grand schemes that appeal to intellectuals , the media and the imagination , but are full of practical pitfalls . if the pound had been tied to the mark , the british would have been unable to cut their exorbitant tax rates . the reason is simple . when a country cuts tax rates , it makes itself more attractive to investors and drives up the value of its currency . it was fear of disturbing ems exchange-rate relationships that caused the chirac government in france to be timid about cutting tax rates . edouard balladur , the finance minister at the time , was sold on the tax-cut policy but was concerned that his government would be criticized as anti-european for disturbing the linked european currency relationship . the price of attracting capital -- whether one 's own or that of foreigners -- is a trade deficit . to avoid this deficit mr. lawson inflated the pound in order to prevent its rise . this misguided policy could not prevent a british trade deficit . consequently , mr. lawson saddled mrs. thatcher with a record trade deficit , renewed inflation and high interest rates -- three political failures in a row . little wonder that mrs. thatcher 's opponents were so anxious to keep mr. lawson in office . it is extraordinary that the british treasury thought 0 it could prevent a trade deficit by inflating the pound . the british balance-of-payments statistics show that after the top tax rate was cut to 40 % , the flow abroad of british capital slowed , to 50 billion pounds -lrb- $ 79 billion at the current rate -rrb- in 1988 from 93 billion pounds in 1986 . this change in the british capital account required an offsetting change in the trade account , a change that could not be prevented by pegging the currency . nigel lawson was a victim of the immense confusion in thought that has been characteristic of western financial circles during the 1980s . the most important governments have ignored the role of low tax rates in attracting real capital investment , instead emphasizing financial flows in response to high interest rates . this has led them in a fruitless and destructive policy circle . first comes monetary expansion to drive down the currency 's value that was pushed up by tax-rate reduction . then , when the currency falls , interest rates are raised to attract financial flows in order to stabilize the exchange rate . this policy is totally mindless , and sir alan is correct to point out its deficiencies . britain and all of europe need to reconsider the prospects for european integration in light of the possible reunification and neutralization of germany . a unified germany that remained within the western alliance would give germany such an overshadowing position that all other members of a unified europe would become vassals of the german state . unless the soviet union collapses , german reunification is likely to require germany 's neutralization . the implications for britain , france and the rest of europe of having their currencies tied to the economic policy of a neutral country need considering before we judge mr. lawson 's resignation to be unfortunate . in the least , we must recognize the futility of trying to use exchange-rate intervention to offset the effects of tax-rate reduction on capital flows . mr. roberts was assistant treasury secretary under president reagan .