at age eight , josephine baker was sent by her mother to a white woman 's house to do chores in exchange for meals and a place 0 to sleep -- a place in the basement with the coal . at age 19 , she was a paris sensation , transformed from unwanted child to international sex symbol in just over a decade . it is the stuff of dreams , but also of traumas . only the bravest spirits survive such roller coasters . and , for ms. baker , the ride was far from over . her bare breasts , her dancing , her voice , her beauty and , perhaps most famously , her derriere , were prominent attractions , but courage of a rare sort made her remarkable life possible . bricktop , another american black woman who found a measure of fame in paris , said : `` i do n't think 0 i 've ever known anyone with a less complicated view of life , or whose life was more complicated than josephine 's . '' men were a constant complication . baker had lots of them . but she did n't trust them and did n't reward trust . as she saw one key love affair , the problem was n't her infidelity , it was his jealousy . her appetite for children also was large . she adopted 12 of assorted races , naming them the rainbow tribe , and driving her husband first to despair and then to argentina . she made money , but spent more . friends pitched in . finally , prince rainier and princess grace saved her with the offer of a house in monaco . another lifelong complication , as phyllis rose makes clear in `` jazz cleopatra : josephine baker in her time '' -lrb- doubleday , 321 pages , $ 22.50 -rrb- , was racism . baker had the good luck to arrive in 1925 paris , where blacks had become exotic . african art was in vogue and some intellectuals were writing breathlessly of a dawning age 0 to be inspired by blacks . to be exotic was to be patronized as well as prized , but for the most part paris was a friendly island in a racist world . baker had bitter experience of bigotry from her st. louis childhood and her days in new york theater , where she was judged too dark for an all-black chorus line -lrb- performing of course for all-white audiences -rrb- . paris loved her at first sight . `` she just wiggled her fanny and all the french fell in love with her , '' sniffed the literary world 's maria jolas , not entirely inaccurately . `` one can hardly overemphasize the importance of her rear end , '' ms. rose writes . ms. rose , who teaches literature at wesleyan university , quickly proceeds to overemphasize , claiming that baker 's dancing `` had uncovered a new region for desire '' and thereby ignoring centuries of tributes to the callipygous . `` jazz cleopatra '' contains other , more important , false notes that undermine what is , for the most part , a lively account of a life already familiar from earlier works . it is easy to see why baker , a free spirit who broke many of the restraints 0 convention places on women , attracts ms. rose , the author of `` parallel lives , '' a wonderful study of victorian marriage . still , even the title raises questions about the author 's vision of her subject . baker 's art was jazz only by the widest stretch of the term . to find parallels , other than sexual appeal , with cleopatra , requires an equal stretch . baker was 68 years old when she died in paris , two days after the sold-out opening of her newest show : a movie-like ending to what was a cinematic life . in fact , ms. baker played scenes in casablanca that could have made it into `` casablanca . '' during world war ii , her uncomplicated view of life led her to the conclusion that the nazis were evil and must be resisted , a decision made by only about 2 % of french citizens . she was devoted to charles de gaulle 's cause , accepting great financial sacrifice and considerable risk to become first a spy and then a one-woman uso tour for the forces of free france . in humphrey bogart 's nightclub , victor laszlo leads free french sympathizers in `` la marseillaise '' to drown out the nazis . the night 0 the germans occupied all of france , baker performed in casablanca . the free french wore black arm bands , and when she sang `` j'ai deux amours '' they wept . ms. rose is best on the early years and world war ii . in her introduction , ms. rose writes that she feels 0 she has much in common with baker , but as `` jazz cleopatra '' goes on , it seems more rushed , as though the author were growing less interested . it does n't help that sometimes ms. rose 's language fails to deliver the effect 0 she appears to want . one chapter opens : `` world war ii was not one of france 's glorious moments . '' elsewhere , in an attempt to explain without stating it plainly that baker had a large gay following later in her career when she was an overdressed singer rather than underdressed dancer , ms. rose writes : `` she was a female impersonator who happened to be a woman . '' one devoted fan who fell under baker 's spell in 1963 and began collecting baker memorabilia was bryan hammond . in `` josephine baker '' -lrb- jonathan cape , 304 pages , $ 35 -rrb- , which was published in britain last year and distributed in the u.s. this month , mr. hammond has used his collection to produce an album of photographs and drawings of the star . the text by patrick o'connor is a tough read , but the pictures make her magnetism clear and help explain why ernest hemingway called baker `` the most sensational woman 0 anybody ever saw . or ever will . '' mr. lescaze is foreign editor of the journal .