iverson technology corp. was one of the fastest-growing small companies in america -- until last year . the mclean , va. , company modifies computers to keep sensitive military data out of unfriendly hands . from 1984 to 1987 , its earnings soared six-fold , to $ 3.8 million , on a seven-fold increase in revenue , to $ 44.1 million . but in 1988 , it ran into a buzz saw : a defense department spending freeze . iverson 's earnings plunged 70 % to $ 1.2 million . the troubles continued in this year 's first half , when profit plunged 81 % to $ 302,000 . iverson technology is one of many small defense contractors besieged by the slowdown in defense spending . unlike larger contractors with a broad enough base 0 to weather the downturn easily , these companies are suffering big drops in business as once-lucrative specialty niches in the massive military market erode or even disappear . companies that only recently were thriving find themselves scrambling to survive . as their varied strategies suggest , there is more than one way 0 to respond to a disaster -- though it 's too soon to tell whether the changes will pay off . for many companies , the instinctive first response is to cut costs . others are trying to find specialty defense work spared by the slowdown or new niches created by budget-cutting . more venturesome businesses are applying their skills in commercial fields . erc international inc. , which provides professional and technical services to the military , is refining its defense niche , not retreating from it . after quadrupling annual earnings over four years to $ 6.8 million in 1988 , the fairfax , va. , company , posted a 23 % drop in earnings for this year 's first half . in the belief that development of advanced military technology will remain a top defense department priority , erc last year acquired w.j. schafer associates , a technical and scientific analysis company with contracts under the strategic defense initiative . while the sdi anti-missile program recently awarded w.j. schafer two contracts totaling $ 13.4 million , erc 's chairman and founder , jack aalseth , says 0 he bought the company `` more for its technology than its customer . '' unc inc. , an annapolis , md. , contractor that earned $ 23.8 million on revenue of $ 400.4 million in 1988 , has gone even further in realigning its military business . as orders for its aircraft and submarine parts dwindled , three years of steady growth ended with a 69 % drop in income in this year 's first half . the company hit on a new strategy : if the defense department is so intent on saving money , why not make money off that trend ? among the company 's current efforts : repairing old parts at 25 % of the cost of replacing them . unc also is selling new parts , if needed , directly to the military instead of through a prime contractor . at as little as one-third of the government 's cost , the company is running a program 0 to train army helicopter pilots . it is also taking over the maintenance of certain navy aircraft with 40 % fewer people than the military used . in another approach , tiny iverson technology is trying to resume its growth by braving the new world of commercial products . donald iverson , chairman , says 0 he hopes 0 the company can eventually get up to half of its revenue from commercial markets . for now , he says 0 , `` we 're looking at buying some small companies with niche markets in the personal-computer business . '' earlier this month , mr. iverson agreed to buy exclusive rights to a software system developed by visher systems inc. , salt lake city . the product automates an array of functions performed at small to medium-size printing companies . mr. iverson says 0 there are 5,000 potential customers for the software in the washington , d.c. , area alone . questech inc. , falls church , va. , also has acquired some companies outside the military market . moreover , it 's trying to transfer its skill at designing military equipment to commercial ventures . a partnership with a williamsburg , va. , unit of shell oil co. recently patented a process for producing plastic food containers that wo n't melt in microwave ovens . `` we 're trying to take the imagination and talent of our engineers and come up with new processes for industry , '' says vincent salvatori , questech 's chief executive . `` it is an effort to branch out from the government , which is very difficult for a defense contractor . '' mr. salvatori should know . instead of helping his company in the defense spending slowdown , dynamic engineering inc. , a troubled subsidiary that makes wind tunnels for the space industry , contributed to much of questech 's $ 3.3 million loss on $ 55.6 million in revenue last year . in january , mr. salvatori sold the unit . `` it was our first acquisition , '' he says , `` and it was a mistake . '' some companies are cutting costs and hoping for the best . telos corp. , a santa monica , calif. , provider of software-development and hardware-maintenance services to the military , enjoyed steady growth until this year . following a tripling of earnings , to $ 3.9 million , on a doubling of revenue , to $ 116 million , over four years , earnings in the company 's fiscal first quarter , which ended june 30 , plunged 90 % to $ 45,000 . a one-time write-off for booking nonexistent revenue was partly to blame , but so were lower profits from a stingier contract with the army and delays in getting paid . telos responded by combining three of its five divisions to reduce expenses and `` bring more focus to potentially fewer bidding opportunities , '' says lin conger , telos chairman and controlling shareholder . `` it 's evident 0 we 're entering a more competitive era , '' he says . transtechnology corp. , a sherman oaks , calif. , defense contractor that earned $ 9.2 million on revenue of $ 235.2 million in 1988 , provides a more dramatic example of cost-cutting . the company not only merged three military-electronics manufacturing operations , but also closed an unrelated plant that makes ordnance devices used in fighter planes and missiles . the closing contributed to a $ 3.4 million loss in the fiscal first quarter ended july 31 -- its first quarterly loss since 1974 . `` our ordnance business has been hurt very badly by the slowdown , '' says arch scurlock , transtechnology 's chairman . `` i would n't say 0 we 're out of the business . but we 're not making as many -lcb- pyrotechnic devices -rcb- as we used to .