just after midnight monday , federal spending started to drop by $ 16 billion . what do you say we all close down the poker game , go home and bank the $ 16 billion ? that 's essentially what budget director richard darman is suggesting , and we think 0 he deserves as much support as he can get . if human beings ca n't cut federal spending honestly -- and they ca n't -- let the computers do it . congress , with a measure of white house complicity , has been manipulating the spending accounts for years under the cover of omnibus appropriations bills . -lrb- indeed without earlier manipulations , the current sequester of $ 16 billion would have been even larger . -rrb- we suspect 0 voters are fed up with the finagling . consider , for instance , that even yesterday 's widely publicized sequester is likely to be traduced if business as usual is allowed to prevail . under the law , gramm-rudman 's across-the-board-cuts in federal programs are supposed to be permanent . social security and spending for poor people are exempted . however , the associated press 's account of the monday sequester order signed by president bush neatly captured the contempt 0 congress shows toward the notion of a legally binding commitment : `` lawmakers have been saying for weeks that they plan to roll back the cuts as soon as they agree to a compromise on a deficit-cutting bill . '' mr. darman 's inclination to save the sequester was backed up yesterday by white house press secretary marlin fitzwater : `` there is some feeling here that the cuts are the way 0 to go . it will reduce spending in a very effective fashion . '' this attitude is being waved away by sophisticates around washington as little more than tough talk . it looks to us like a golden opportunity for george bush to chop off at the knees all this talk about a timid , unserious presidency . mr. bush would be acting in the public interest if he let the washington elites who manipulate these budgets -- the bureaucrats , the lobbyists , the congressional staffers -- live for just one year on a restricted diet . ask tommy lasorda ; thin is in . senator phil gramm pointed out monday that in the 20 years before gramm-rudman was enacted in 1985 , federal spending grew by about 11 % a year ; since the law , it 's grown at under 5 % annually . another major factor in this positive trend was ronald reagan 's decision early in his presidency to fight the budget war on the expenditure side rather than raising taxes . george bush 's continued support of the tax dam sustains this strategy of pressuring congress to make choices among competing priorities , rather than just saying yes to all the grateful special-interest constituencies that fill the pac trough . if washington 's elites ever succeed in bursting the tax dam , americans will be engulfed in a red sea of new spending programs , such as federalized child care . child care was one of the many `` extraneous '' bills pulled out of the senate 's reconciliation bill last friday . others were the capital-gains cut , section 89 repeal , the disabled workers bill , and the unprecedented reconsideration of the catastrophic health act . all this stuff still is in the house 's 1,878-page reconciliation bill , and many members say 0 they 're reluctant to pull out cherished bills , just to see them die . republicans especially want a guarantee from the house leadership that they 'll get an up-or-down vote on the bills . house speaker foley ought to deliver that promise . this is the way 0 government is supposed to work , with politicians taking responsibility for votes that their constituents can identify , instead of concealing them in the great reconciliation garbage truck . we have as much nostalgia as anyone for those leafy , breezy days in washington when honorable men and women dickered over budgets and even log-rolled a bit to see that the bridges got build , roads paved , soldiers paid or that the desperately poor were cared for . those days are gone . nor do we see any reason 0 to believe that a metropolitan washington that has gotten fat and rich and lazy in the shadow of the federal colossus will change much on its own initiative . save the sequester , and let washington scream .