the house appropriations committee approved an estimated $ 2.85 billion in emergency funding 0 to assist california 's recovery from last week 's earthquake and to extend further aid to east coast victims of hurricane hugo . the package was termed excessive by the bush administration , but it also provoked a struggle with influential california lawmakers who sought unsuccessfully to add nearly $ 1 billion more and waive current restrictions to expedite the distribution of funds . by a 26-7 margin , the committee scuttled the more expensive alternative , and the debate forced a strained confrontation between appropriations committee chairman jamie whitten -lrb- d. , miss . -rrb- and his party 's largest state delegation in the house . `` i have no regrets about going forward , '' said rep. vic fazio -lrb- d. , calif. -rrb- , who sought later to play down the sometimes hostile tone of the long evening meeting . `` we are the golden state , '' mr. fazio said , `` and there is a certain amount of jealousy . '' the $ 2.85 billion package incorporates $ 500 million for small-business loans , $ 1 billion in highway construction funds , and $ 1.35 billion divided between general emergency assistance and a reserve 0 to be available to president bush to meet unanticipated costs from the two disasters . the funding is attached to a stopgap bill 0 to keep most of the government operating through nov. 15 . the measure is expected to come before the house today , and congress is under pressure to complete action before midnight edt tomorrow , when the current continuing resolution expires . given california 's size and political importance , the white house is eager to appear generous . but in private meetings yesterday , budget director richard darman argued that only $ 1.5 billion in new federal appropriations are needed to supplement existing resources . a white house budget office analysis estimates that $ 500 million -- or half the level in the committee bill -- is needed for highway assistance 0 to meet california 's needs , and the administration rejects the notion that new appropriations are needed to finance disaster loans by the small business administration . `` everybody appreciates that it is a national disaster and that we 've got to address it , '' said mr. darman , who came to the capitol to meet with mr. whitten and california lawmakers before the committee session . `` i would hope very much that we would n't end up in a kind of situation where you have a bidding war and then a veto threat . '' although this white house pressure was clearly a factor among committee republicans , no single influence was greater than mr. whitten . a master of pork-barrel politics , he had crafted the $ 2.85 billion package in vintage style and used the full force of his chairmanship to keep the proposal intact and dismiss any alternative . when mr. fazio offered the california-backed $ 3.84 billion plan , mr. whitten insisted that the full 14 pages be read aloud by the panel 's clerk to underscore the range of legislative changes also sought by the delegation . on the chairman 's motion , the california package was subsequently reduced to less-binding report language , and even when this was accepted as such on a voice vote , mr. whitten pointedly opposed it . more important than money in many cases are waivers 0 california is seeking on current restrictions covering federal highway funds , such as a $ 100 million cap on how much any single state can receive in emergency funds in a year . mr. whitten 's package appears to accomplish this purpose , but the state faces more resistance in its bid for an extended waiver on having to put up any matching funds on repairs completed in the next six months . a member in the house leadership and skilled legislator , mr. fazio nonetheless found himself burdened not only by california 's needs but by hurricane hugo amendments 0 he accepted in a vain effort to build support in the panel . the california democrat appeared embarrassed by provisions inserted on behalf of owners of private beaches in the virgin islands , and lumber interests sought to add another $ 100 million in federal aid 0 to plant timber on private land in north and south carolina . california 's high-priced real estate puts it in an awkward position , too . one provision last night would have raised the cap on disaster loans to $ 500,000 from $ 100,000 per household to accommodate san francisco losses .