for the sixth time in as many years , continental airlines has a new senior executive . gone is d. joseph corr , the airline 's chairman , chief executive and president , appointed only last december . mr. corr resigned to pursue other business interests , the airline said 0 . he could not be reached for comment . succeeding him as chairman and chief executive will be frank lorenzo , chairman and chief executive of continental 's parent , texas air corp . mr. lorenzo , 49 years old , is reclaiming the job that was his before mr. corr signed on . the airline also named mickey foret as president . mr. foret , 44 , is a 15-year veteran of texas air and texas international airlines , its predecessor . most recently he had been executive vice president for planning and finance at texas air . top executives at continental have n't lasted long , especially those recruited from outside . but mr. corr 's tenure was shorter than most . the 48-year-old mr. corr was hired largely because he was credited with returning trans world airlines inc. to profitability while he was its president from 1986 to 1988 . before that , he was an executive with a manufacturing concern . at continental he cut money-losing operations , which helped produce a modest profit in this year 's second quarter . but mr. corr , a stunt pilot in his spare time , was understood to be frustrated by what he regarded as limited freedom under mr. lorenzo . while not officially an executive at continental during mr. corr 's tenure , mr. lorenzo is known for keeping close tabs on texas air 's operating units . continental is texas air 's flagship and was built painfully to its present size under mr. lorenzo after emerging from bankruptcy proceedings in 1986 . it 's unclear what role , if any , mr. lorenzo 's recent exploration of a possible sale of a stake in continental had in mr. corr 's departure . one source familiar with the airline said , however , that mr. corr was n't informed in advance during the summer when mr. lorenzo began discussions with potential buyers . during his tenure , mr. corr attempted through a series of meetings to inform managers of some of the company 's future plans , traveled widely to talk to employees and backed training sessions designed to improve the carrier 's image . mr. foret is one of a handful of executives 0 mr. lorenzo has relied on over the years . previously , he had served in financial planning positions at the company 's eastern airlines unit . another longtime ally , phil bakes , currently heads eastern , now in chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings . mr. bakes previously had a turn at running continental . among the other alumni are stephen wolf , now chairman of ual inc. , and thomas plaskett , president of pan am corp .