the commercial was absolutely silent . breaking into the raucous chicago bears-cleveland browns match during last week 's monday night football game , it was nothing but simple block letters superimposed on the tv screen . `` due to the earthquake in san francisco , nissan is donating its commercial air time to broadcast american red cross emergency relief messages . please contribute what you can , '' the ad said . the nissan logo flashed on the screen for a moment , and then came a taped plea for donations from former president reagan -- followed by the silent print telling viewers where to call . within two hours , viewers pledged over $ 400,000 , according to a red cross executive . call it disaster marketing . nissan motor is just one of a slew of advertisers that have hitched their ads to the devastating san francisco quake and hurricane hugo . sometimes , the ads attempt to raise money ; always , they try to boost good will . by advertising disaster relief , these companies are hoping to don a white hat and come out a hero . but the strategy can backfire ; if the ads appear too self-serving , the companies may end up looking like rank opportunists instead of good samaritans . that has n't deterred plenty of companies . along with nissan , grand metropolitan plc 's burger king and new york life insurance have tied ads to red cross donations . other ads do n't bother with the fundraising ; a touching , if self-congratulatory , american telephone & telegraph ad that aired sunday intermixed footage of the devastation in san francisco and charleston , s.c. , with interviews of people recounting how at&t helped . at nissan , `` we felt 0 we wanted to do something to help them gather money , and we had this airtime on monday night football , '' explains 0 brooke mitzel , a nissan advertising creative manager . `` what did we get out of it ? we got some exposure ... and pretty much good will . '' the ads are just the latest evidence of how television advertising is getting faster on the draw . while tv commercials typically take weeks to produce , advertisers in the past couple of years have learned to turn on a dime , to crash out ads in days or even hours . the big brokerage houses learned the art of the instant commercial after the 1987 crash , when they turned out reassuring ads inviting investors right back into the stock market . they trotted out another crop of instant commercials after the sudden market dip a few weeks ago . nissan created its quake ad in a weekend . but as advertisers latch onto disasters with increasing frequency , they risk hurting themselves as much as helping the cause . they chance alienating the customers 0 they hope to woo by looking like opportunistic sharks . `` people see extra messages in advertising , and if a manufacturer is clearly trying to get something out of it ... if it 's too transparent ... then consumers will see through that , '' warns john philip jones , chairman of the advertising department at the newhouse school of public communications at syracuse university . `` it can backfire because companies can step across the line and go too far , be too pushy , '' agrees gary stibel , a principal with new england consulting group , westport , conn . `` the ultimate form of charity is when you do n't tell anyone . '' still , he says that only a few of the quake-related campaigns have been `` tasteless '' and that `` the majority have been truly beneficial to the people who need the help . we do n't consider that ambulance chasing . '' the companies running the disaster ads certainly do n't see themselves as ambulance chasers , either . burger king 's chief executive officer , barry gibbons , stars in ads saying that the fast-food chain will donate 25 cents to the red cross for every purchase of a bk doubles hamburger . the campaign , which started last week and runs through nov. 23 , with funds earmarked for both the quake and hugo , `` was barry 's idea , '' a spokeswoman says 0 . `` barry felt very committed . he felt 0 we should be giving something back . '' while the campaign was mr. gibbons 's idea , however , he wo n't be paying for it : the donations will come out of the chain 's national advertising fund , which is financed by the franchisees . and by basing donations on bk doubles , a new double-hamburger line 0 the fast-food chain is trying to push , burger king works a sales pitch into its public-service message . toyota 's upscale lexus division , a sponsor of the world series , also put in a plug for red cross donations in a world series game 0 it sponsored . `` the world series is brought to you by lexus , who urges you to help relieve the suffering caused by the recent earthquake ... , '' the game announcer said . and new york life made a plea for red cross donations in newspaper ads in the san francisco area , latching onto the coattails of the red cross 's impeccable reputation : `` the red cross has been helping people for 125 years . new york life has been doing the same for over 140 years . '' nancy craig , advertising manager for the red cross , readily admits `` they 're piggybacking on our reputation . '' but she has no problem with that , she says 0 : `` in the meanwhile , they 're helping us . '' the red cross does n't track contributions raised by the disaster ads , but it has amassed $ 46.6 million since it first launched its hurricane relief effort sept. 23 . ad notes ... . new account : northrup king co. , golden valley , minn. , awarded its $ 4 million field-crop-seeds account to creswell , munsell , fultz & zirbel , a cedar rapids , iowa , division of young & rubicam . the account had previously been handled by saatchi & saatchi wegener , new york . tv guide : wieden & kennedy , portland , ore. , was named to handle the news corp. publication 's $ 1 million to $ 2 million trade-ad account . n w ayer , the new york agency that had handled the account since 1963 , resigned the account about two weeks ago . no alcohol : miller brewing co. will introduce its first non-alcoholic beer jan. 1 . the brew , called miller sharp 's , will be supported by ads developed by frankenberry , laughlin & constable , milwaukee .