for bankers and regulators , arizona is looking more like texas every day . on friday , los angeles-based first interstate bancorp said 0 it expects a net loss of $ 16 million for the third quarter of 1989 because of hemorrhaging at its first interstate bank of arizona unit . first interstate said 0 the unit , bludgeoned by arizona 's worsening real-estate woes , will have a $ 174 million loss for the quarter . first interstate took a huge $ 350 million provision for loan losses at the arizona bank . it charged off an estimated $ 200 million of arizona loans , leaving the unit with a reserve for future losses of $ 255 million , about 61 % of its $ 416 million of troubled loans and repossessed real estate . first interstate made the move under pressure from regulators . the action capped a spurt of grim arizona banking news for the third quarter , and emphatically signaled that arizona is challenging texas 's long reign as banking 's busiest graveyard . earlier last week , valley national corp. , the state 's largest locally owned banking company , reported a $ 72.2 million loss and suspended its dividend . pinnacle west capital corp. , which has been wrangling with regulators for months over what to do about pinnacle 's moribund merabank thrift unit , suspended its dividend and reported a 91 % plunge in third-quarter net income . security pacific corp. said 0 third-quarter credit losses surged a third to $ 109 million , mainly because of sour arizona real-estate loans . new york-based chase manhattan corp. took an $ 85 million arizona-related charge . furthermore , the regulatory maneuvering behind first interstate 's loss suggests 0 regulators have concluded that lenders ' reserves are far too low 0 to absorb their future arizona losses and are forcing bankers to do something about it . examiners from the office of the comptroller of the currency had been combing through first interstate 's real-estate portfolio since last month ; they first recommended that first interstate take a provision that was less than the eventual $ 350 million third-quarter hit . when first interstate balked , arguing that the figure was too high , regulators responded by raising their recommendation to $ 350 million . `` at that point , -lcb- first interstate -rcb- decided 0 it was the better part of valor not to negotiate further , '' said one industry official close to the talks . thomas p. marrie , chief financial officer , would n't comment about the details of the negotiations . he said 0 the provision `` was n't forced upon us , but the regulators made it very clear what they thought 0 was an appropriate number . '' the tough regulatory stance portends large future losses , especially at the state 's thrifts . at least six of arizona 's 12 savings and loan institutions have either been taken over by the government 's conservatorship program or are essentially insolvent ; they are sitting on enormous unrecognized losses . for example , western savings & loan association , which is now in conservatorship , had tangible capital-assets minus liabilities -- of a negative $ 357.4 million at june 30 . it had a $ 258.9 million loss in the second quarter . yet it still held $ 916.3 million of repossessed real estate , for which it maintains no reserves whatsoever . it also had $ 479.7 million of past-due loans ; its level of reserves against those was n't immediately available , though it is believed to be small . the rapid deterioration of the arizona thrifts only adds to the ever-swelling cost of the government 's massive thrift bailout , officially estimated at about $ 166 billion . together , the six government-controlled or essentially insolvent arizona thrifts have tangible capital of a negative $ 1.5 billion , foreclosed property of $ 1.8 billion and pastdue loans of $ 1.63 billion . they have no reserves against the real estate , and their reserves against the loans are miniscule compared with the levels of reserves 0 banks are moving to set up . the thrifts had a combined loss of $ 487.8 million in the second quarter . other lenders have been recovering only 50 cents to 60 cents on the dollar on foreclosed arizona property , if they can sell it at all . all this havoc is the result of one of the worst busts in arizona 's boom-and-bust history , compounded by some of the usual suspects in 1980s banking debacles : greed , fraud and plain bad banking . in the late 1970s and early 1980s , lenders and developers poured money into office buildings , condominiums and massive tracts of raw desert land , confident that arizona 's population would grow at annual rates of 4 % to 6 % for years 0 to come . now , annual population growth is running at about 2 % a year , some desert tracts bought three years ago for $ 90,000 an acre are being sold at $ 25,000 an acre and phoenix has a seven-year supply of unoccupied office space . `` it 's horrible to say , but it 's unfortunate 0 that earthquake was n't in phoenix -- it might have knocked out some of our empty buildings , '' said c.w. jackson , a prominent arizona businessman with interests in real estate , banking and many other businesses . many arizona real-estate experts think 0 the worst may be yet to come . ralph shattuck , publisher of foreclosure update newsletter , said 0 foreclosures have climbed to about 1,482 a month just in maricopa county , where phoenix is located . that 's up from about 687 a month in 1985 , and it 's accelerating : so far this month , foreclosures are averaging about 85 a day . `` it 's frightening , '' mr. shattuck said . moreover , mr. shattuck and others said 0 residential real estate , which had remained fairly strong through most of the downturn , is beginning to comprise more and more of the foreclosures . and the generally frail condition of arizona 's lenders means 0 there is little capital available in the state to shore up the economy and slow down the slide . `` it 's reasonable to say 0 there is not a solvent s&l in the state and the amount of viable bank capital is very low , '' said mr. jackson . `` we 're going to see another big wave of failures and defaults between now and year-end ... . the only thing 0 a lot of these lenders can get out of their mouth now is : ` pay me in 60 days . ' '' first interstate had a $ 214.4 million loss in 1988 's third quarter , mainly from writedowns and reserves connected with its texas operations . for the six months ended june 30 , it reported net income of $ 234.3 million , or $ 4.83 a share , including $ 46 million from tax credits and accounting changes . the bank 's arizona unit holds about $ 6 billion of first interstate 's $ 50 billion of assets . mr. marrie said 0 the bank expects arizona real-estate prices , which plummeted 40 % over the last year , to fall another 20 % before stabilizing . some in arizona think 0 that may be optimistic . first interstate said 0 its operations outside of arizona `` achieved results as expected for the quarter , '' but did n't specify the results . first interstate stock closed at $ 57.625 , down 25 cents , in composite trading friday on the new york stock exchange . since its unsuccessful bid for bankamerica corp. in 1986 , the bank has undertaken a major restructuring in an effort to cut costs and boost performance , but many industry officials believe 0 it may be ripe for a takeover bid , especially with interstate banking set to begin in california in 1991 . mr. marrie said 0 the problems in arizona have only `` increased our resolve to continue to make our restructuring even more effective . '' separately , standard & poor 's corp. lowered its ratings on valley national corp. 's senior debt to double-b from double-b-plus , affecting about $ 300 million of long-term debt . s&p also lowered ratings on unsecured deposits and issues backed by a letter of credit from the bank holding company 's principal unit , valley national bank of arizona . the ratings service said 0 the downgrades reflect the continued slide in the company 's financial condition . a spokesman for phoenix , ariz.-based valley national , said 0 the concern will be able to withstand the current downturn in arizona real estate . commercial paper holders have reinvested their funds , he said 0 , and consumer deposits have been up in the last few days .