federal reserve critics used to complain of `` stop and go '' monetary policies . they claimed that the fed would first give a green light to the economy by making credit readily available and then turn on the red and bring growth to a screeching halt . but under alan greenspan that has changed . a supremely cautious man , the fed chairman is forever blinking yellow . indeed , his caution has become legendary within the government . he fusses endlessly over economic statistics , dissecting them in dozens of ways , probing for hours in search of potential problems . after thoroughly digesting reams of information , he often concludes that more data are needed , and when he finally decides to act , his movements sometimes seem excrutiatingly small . such caution was evident after the recent friday-the-13th stock market plunge . some bush administration officials urged mr. greenspan to make an immediate public announcement of his plans to provide ample credit to the markets . but he refused , claiming that he wanted to see what happened monday morning before making any public statement . mr. greenspan 's decision to keep quiet also prompted a near-mutiny within the fed 's ranks . a `` senior fed official '' spoke on saturday after the market swoon to both the washington post and the new york times , saying 0 the fed was prepared to provide as much credit as the markets needed . the statement angered chairman greenspan , but it was greeted with applause by the bush administration and the financial markets . and , while the mutinous fed member has n't gone public , some fed governors , most notably vice chairman manuel johnson , are known to have disagreed with the chairman 's decision to remain silent . ironically , the anonymous official 's comments have earned some plaudits for mr. greenspan , who is mistakenly seen as the source . at a hearing last week , democratic sen. chris dodd of connecticut told treasury secretary nicholas brady that `` chairman greenspan 's '' announcement over the oct. 13 weekend was a `` very important statement . '' mr. brady hesitantly replied that he was n't sure whether mr. greenspan `` made a statement himself , or whether that was a newspaper report . '' the fed chairman 's caution was apparent again on the monday morning after the market 's plunge , when the central bank took only modest steps 0 to aid the markets . a surprisingly small amount of reserves was added to the banking system . and , by the end of that week , the key federal funds interest rate , which is largely controlled by the fed , had settled at 8.75 % , barely changed from the level of just under 9 % that prevailed the previous week . bush administration officials appear increasingly concerned that mr. greenspan is cautious to a fault . signs of growing weakness in the economy , paired with indications that inflation is staying well under control , have caused them to wonder why the fed chairman is so grudging in reducing rates . those concerns are n't expressed in public . in fact , the administration and the fed have been going out of their way in the past two weeks to dispel any impression that they are at odds , fearing 0 stories about an administration-fed split added to the stock market 's jitters . still , the split is there . the administration 's concerns are understandable . the economy is showing signs of weakness , particularly among manufacturers . exports , which played a key role in fueling growth over the last two years , seem to have stalled . factory payrolls and production fell in september , and the auto industry and housing are in a severe crunch . but mr. greenspan remains reluctant to loosen policy , partly because he faces a phalanx of presidents of regional fed banks who oppose credit easing . in addition , the chairman has a wary eye aimed a year or two down the road . inflation may be stable at the moment , running at about 4.5 % . but if the fed eases too soon , mr. greenspan fears 0 , prices may begin to accelerate again next year . moreover , if the fed holds tight , it may be able gradually to reduce inflation , moving toward the zero-inflation goal that the fed chairman embraced in testimony to congress last week . so far , mr. greenspan 's cautious approach to policy has served both him and the nation well . his hand on the monetary tiller seems one reason why the economy next month seems highly likely to begin an unprecedented eighth year of peacetime growth without a recession . `` we 've gotten through two stock market crashes , and we 've gone through an election without any major problems , '' says david hale , an economist of kemper financial services . `` i think 0 you have to give greenspan a good rating . '' but such caution is no guarantee against mistakes . the fed 's reluctance to ease credit now could be laying the groundwork for a new recession , perhaps starting early next year . if that happens , chairman greenspan could well become an open target . already , congress is toying with legislation 0 to curb the fed 's independence . if the economy turns down , such proposals could gain strong momentum .