when the supreme soviet passed laws on workers ' rights in may 1987 and on self-managing cooperatives a year later , some western observers assumed 0 mikhail gorbachev had launched the soviet union on a course that would lead inevitably to the creation of a market economy . their only doubt concerned the possibility that mr. gorbachev might not survive the opposition that his reforms would arouse and that the whole process might be reversed . if mr. gorbachev 's goal is the creation of a free market , he and these western observers have good reason 0 to fear for his future , as economic liberalization within communist societies leads inexorably to demands for fundamental political reform accompanied by civil unrest . these fears were clearly apparent when , last week , secretary of state james baker blocked a speech by robert gates , deputy national security adviser and soviet expert , on the ground that it was too pessimistic about the chances of mr. gorbachev 's economic reforms succeeding . yet the soviet leader 's readiness to embark on foreign visits and steady accumulation of personal power , particularly since the last politburo reshuffle on sept. 30 , do not suggest that mr. gorbachev is on the verge of being toppled ; nor does he look likely to reverse the powers of perestroika . indeed , the soviet miners strike this summer clearly demonstrated that mr. gorbachev must proceed with economic reform . but is he so clever that he has achieved the political equivalent of making water run uphill ? and has he truly persuaded the communist party to accept economic change of a kind that will , sooner or later , lead to its demise ? an alternative and more convincing explanation , confirmed by recent events and a close inspection of the gorbachev program , is that the new soviet economic and social structures are intended to conform to a model other than that of the market . for example , while the laws on individual labor activity allow a citizen to earn a living independent of the state , strict provisions are attached on how far this may lead to the development of a free market . before becoming self-employed , or setting up a cooperative , workers must seek permission from the local soviet -lrb- council -rrb- . permission is far from automatic : the soviets have the legal right to turn down applications and impose conditions , and they appear to be exercising these powers . private dressmaking , for example , is allowed in 10 soviet republics but banned by five ; shoemaking is allowed in seven but illegal in nine . the controls on cooperatives appeared relatively liberal when first introduced . but that changed following a resolution from the supreme soviet banning cooperatives from operating in some areas of the economy , and permitting activity in others only if the cooperatives are under contract to the state . all independent media activity is now illegal , which perhaps is not surprising , but so is the manufacture of perfume , cosmetics , household chemicals and sand candles . medical cooperatives , among the most successful in the u.s.s.r. , are banned from providing general-practitioner services -lrb- their main source of income -rrb- , carrying out surgery , and treating cancer patients , drug addicts and pregnant women . earlier this month , the supreme soviet adopted two more resolutions restricting the freedom of cooperatives : the first enables the soviets to set prices for which goods may be sold ; the second bans cooperatives from buying `` industrial and food goods '' from the state or other cooperatives . if mr. gorbachev is looking toward unleashing the productive forces of the market , these latest resolutions are nothing short of reckless . along with some other revealing indicators , these developments suggest that while mr. gorbachev wishes to move away from some rigid central controls , he is bent on creating economic structures of a kind that would scarcely find favor with the austrian or chicago schools of economic thought . mr. gorbachev has ruled out the use of the market to solve the problem of insufficient consumer goods . he told the congress of people 's deputies on may 30 : `` we do not share this approach , since it would immediately destroy the social situation and disrupt all the processes in the country . '' having rejected central economic planning for economic reasons , and the market for fear of the social -lrb- political -rrb- consequences , mr. gorbachev seeks a `` third way '' that would combine the discipline and controls of the former with the economic benefits of the latter . most important , this would leave the party intact and its monopoly of political power largely undisturbed . indeed , mr. gorbachev 's proposals display a close conceptual resemblance to the tenets of italian fascism , whose architects spoke specifically of a `` third way '' : of having produced a historic synthesis of socialism and capitalism . they , too , promised to combine economic efficiency with order and discipline . the emergence of russian corporatism had been anticipated in journalist george urban 's introduction to a series of colloquies -- `` can the soviet system survive reform ? '' -- published this spring . `` communism will reach its final stage of development in a feckless russo -- corporation-socialist in form , nationalistic in content and oriental in style -- that will puzzle the world with alternating feats of realism and recklessness ... . '' the fascist concept of corporatism envisaged an `` organic '' society in which citizens were spiritually and morally unified , and prepared to sacrifice themselves for the nation . this unification was to be brought about through policies and institutions that would unite workers and employers with government in a fully integrated and `` harmonic '' society . the key to the creation of the `` organic '' state lay in the formation of `` natural '' groups that would undertake the role of decision-making . by contrast , a parliamentary system based on abstract political rights and groups was held to cause , rather than resolve , conflict . the closeness of soviet perestroika to the fascist social blueprint of mussolini was evident when mr. gorbachev presented his economic vision to the soviet congress . in doing so , he neither rejected a socialist planned economy nor embraced the free market . instead , he proposed a `` law-governed economy , '' in which there would be a `` clear-cut division between state direction of the economy and economic management . '' the latter would be undertaken by `` enterprises , joint stock companies and cooperatives . '' these would not function independently , but would act together to form `` combines , unions and associations '' 0 to tackle problems and coordinate their activities . mr. gorbachev is in a much stronger position 0 to pursue the corporatist ideal than was mussolini , who was never able to influence business giants such as pirelli and fiat . the soviet communist party has the power to shape corporate development and mold it into a body dependent upon it . to ensure the loyalty of the business sector , mr. gorbachev may offer concessions and powers that will allow the business community to preserve its own interests , probably by restricting competition . however , mr. gorbachev must ensure that within this `` alliance '' the business sector remains subordinate to the party . at the same time , he must give it sufficient freedom 0 to provide the economic benefits so desperately needed . it is the promise of economic returns that is supposed to make the corporatist model attractive to both the party and labor . the work force provides the third arm of the `` alliance . '' within the alliance it is supposed to act as a balancing force , guarding against excessive control by government or abuse of its economic position by business , for either could result in a deterioration of its living standards -lrb- under the new resolutions , workers councils may demand that a cooperative be closed or its prices be reduced -rrb- . by providing workers with the opportunity to move into the private sector where wages tend to be higher , and by holding out the promise of more consumer goods , mr. gorbachev hopes to revive the popularity of the party . at the same time , the strategy requires that he deal effectively with those who seek genuine western-style political pluralism . the most important development in mr. gorbachev 's policy for marginalizing the opposition movement is the claim that the u.s.s.r. also suffers from terrorism . an increasing number of references by the soviet press to opposition groups now active in the u.s.s.r. , particularly the democratic union , allege that they show `` terroristic tendencies '' and claim that they would be prepared to kill in order to achieve their aims . it is possible that , in perpetuating such myths , the ground is being laid for the arrest of opposition activists on the ground of terrorism . mr. gorbachev would appear to see his central task , however , as that of ensuring that foundations of an alliance among labor , capital and the state are properly laid before the demands for a multiparty system reach a crescendo . if he were able to construct a popular and efficient corporatist system , he or his heir would be wellplaced to rein in political opposition , and to re-establish control in eastern europe . the weaknesses in his plan do not lie in the political calculations -- mr. gorbachev is a consummate political leader , perhaps one of the greatest -- but in its economic prescription . contrary to widespread belief , mussolini failed to live up to his promise to make the trains run on time ; it is doubtful whether soviet-style corporatism will make soviet trains run on time , or fill the shops with goods that the consumers so desperately crave . miss brady is deputy director of the russian research foundation in london .