west texas intermediate , the u.s. benchmark crude , seemed tethered again yesterday in trading on the new york mercantile exchange . widely expected to open 10 to 15 cents a barrel higher on the strength of statistics from the american petroleum institute , the december contract managed to start the session only eight cents higher . in the last hour of the trading day , december contract took a tumble to end the session 10 cents lower at $ 19.62 a barrel . and now that the price has fallen below $ 19.65 , which many had said 0 showed considerable resistance , some traders and analysts figure 0 there 's little 0 to stop the price from going lower on technical decisions . with no petroleum-related news or changes in the fundamentals 0 to dictate price moves , `` technicians are wanting to sell this stuff , '' said eric bolling of edge trading corp . `` and short-term , the technicians may have their way . '' the market quickly discounted the weekly inventory report showing a 6.3 million barrel decrease in u.s. crude oil stocks as the legacy of hurricane jerry . that storm hit the gulf coast oct. 13 , closing the louisiana offshore oil port for a time and preventing tankers from unloading . next week 's report could very well show an increase in crude inventories . dismissing the trade group 's numbers left traders plenty of time 0 to worry anew about the latest reports on opec production . an ap-dow jones survey of integrated oil companies , independent refiners , and oil industry consultants indicates that the organization of petroleum exporting countries increased its production to 22.2 million barrels a day in september . estimates suggest 0 october 's figure may be even higher . that level of production is n't of much concern as long as demand continues strong , analysts said 0 . but the first quarter of the year is generally the weakest and opec production does n't seem to be slackening in anticipation of that . also , maintaining current demand assumes no significant slowdown in world economies . to top off the bearish factors affecting yesterday 's trading , late october weather , especially in the northeast u.s. , continues to be very moderate , leaving heating oil futures trading lackluster . `` we are n't seeing any cold weather here , '' mr. bolling said from new york . in other commodity markets yesterday : grains and soybeans : soybean and corn futures prices moved higher on the strength of buying from commodity pool managers trying to profit from technical price trends , as well as continued export strength . a leveling off of farmer selling tied to the harvest also removed some of the downward pressure on futures contract prices . wheat futures prices fell , however , at least partly in reaction to the rumored selling of futures contracts equal to several million bushels of wheat by commodity speculator richard dennis . neither mr. dennis nor officials of his chicago trading company , c&d commodities , could be reached for comment . as for corn and soybean futures , `` a lot of commission house buying this morning and computer-driven buying '' supported prices in early trading , said 0 steven freed , a futures analyst with dean witter reynolds inc. in chicago . soybean futures for november delivery gained 5.25 cents a bushel to close at $ 5.66 a bushel on the chicago board of trade . december corn futures added 2.25 cents a bushel to close at $ 2.4225 a bushel on the board of trade . announced and anticipated purchases from foreign countries are also supporting futures prices . `` russian ships are arriving in the gulf and there is n't enough grain in the pipeline , '' said katharina zimmer , a futures analyst with merrill lynch & co. in new york . the soviet union has purchased roughly eight million tons of grain this month , and is expected to take delivery by year end , analysts said 0 . cotton : futures prices rose modestly , but trading volume was n't very heavy . the december contract settled at 73.97 cents a pound , up 0.59 cent , but it rose as high as 74.20 cents . several cotton analysts said that the move appeared to be mostly technical . traders who had sold contracts earlier , in hopes of buying them back at lower prices , yesterday were buying contracts back at higher prices to limit their losses . floor traders also said that the market could have been helped by rumors , which have been circulating for the past two days , about china purchasing cotton . the rumor , which has been neither confirmed nor denied , has china buying 125,000 to 200,000 bales for near-term delivery . one floor trader said that if there were chinese purchases , they should have had a bigger effect on the market . another said that if china was a buyer , it would be the earliest 0 that country had made purchases since the 1979-80 crop year , and thus would be a bullish sign . this trader characterized the recent price action as a contest between the fundamentalists , who see higher prices ahead , and the technicians , who are basically buying cotton toward the bottom of the current trading range , around 71 cents , and selling it when the price climbs more than 74 cents . this trader said that he thought 0 the market would turn aggressively bullish from a technical standpoint if the december contract was able to exceed 75.75 cents . he also noted that stocks on aug. 1 , 1990 , are currently projected at 3.3 million bales , the smallest end-of-season supply since 1985 . cocoa : the modest sell-off , which started on tuesday , continued . the december contract ended at $ 999 a metric ton , down $ 15 . the market is drifting , at least partly , because of a lack of crop information out of ghana and the ivory coast , the two largest african producers . harry schwartz , a soft commodity specialist for cargill investors services in new york , said 0 the only report 0 ghana has issued about the arrival of cocoa from the interior was for 7,839 metric tons as of oct. 12 . by this time last year , he noted 0 , arrivals totaling 33,270 tons had been announced . a similar situation apparently exists in the ivory coast with no figures released yet this year , compared with 55,000 tons as of this time a year ago . he said that if little cocoa actually has arrived at the ports , shipping delays could result . this is the worry that probably brought steadiness to the market earlier in the week , he said 0 . there was also some fear that without ivory coast cocoa a large french cocoa merchant , cie . financiere sucre et denrees , might not be able to deliver cocoa against the contracts 0 it had sold earlier for december delivery in london . however , the french merchant has about 200,000 tons of old crop ivory coast cocoa stored in the netherlands from an agreement 0 it had negotiated with the ivory coast last spring . cargill thinks that even though the merchant has a contract stating that it wo n't bring this cocoa to market until after march 1991 , there is some evidence 0 the contract has been modified . this modification , apparently , would permit the french merchant to deliver this cocoa , if necessary , against existing short positions .