ford motor co. intensified its battle with general motors corp. over jaguar plc by saying 0 it is prepared to make a bid for all of the british auto maker when restrictions on its shareholding are lifted . the statement was part of a ford filing with the u.s. securities and exchange commission . ford did n't say how much it might offer for jaguar , or when . the british government currently forbids any outside investor from holding more than 15 % of the company 's shares without permission until dec. 31 , but with its stake in jaguar , which it raised yesterday to 11.95 % , ford could convene a special jaguar shareholders ' meeting and urge holders to vote to drop the restriction sooner . a successful vote would put pressure on the british government to lift the restriction . `` we have not made that decision '' to seek a jaguar special shareholders ' meeting , said 0 martyn watkins , a ford spokesman in london . he emphasized that the car maker only would bid for all of jaguar under the right circumstances , and said `` those circumstances are n't right or possible at the moment . '' last month , ford announced plans to acquire as much as 15 % of jaguar . since then , jaguar officials have confirmed that they are discussing an alliance with gm and said last week that they hoped to reach an agreement within a month . analysts have been expecting a gm-jaguar pact that would give the u.s. car maker an eventual 30 % stake in the british company and create joint ventures that would produce an executive-model range of cars . but the specter of ford eventually launching a full-fledged bid could unravel the gm-jaguar talks . jaguar seems to be losing interest in giving gm a minority stake , said 0 one individual close to the talks , adding , `` it would n't surprise me if -lcb- jaguar executives -rcb- want to wait and see what the color of that -lcb- ford bid -rcb- is '' first . he predicted 0 ford officials will meet with jaguar executives in the next week to outline their proposed offer . sir john egan , jaguar 's chairman , so far has refused to meet with ford officials , but he is believed to be willing to consider a specific bid proposal . as for gm , its `` fallback position has to be a full bid itself , '' said stephen reitman , european auto-industry analyst at london brokers ubs-phillips & drew . a ford takeover of jaguar would `` have such implications for the balance of power in the 1990s that general motors ca n't afford to step aside . they will have to throw their hat in the ring . '' a gm spokesman yesterday reiterated the company 's interest in acquiring a minority stake to help jaguar remain independent . a pitched battle could mean 0 jaguar would fetch # 10 -lrb- $ 16.02 -rrb- a share , or about # 1.8 billion -lrb- $ 2.88 billion -rrb- , several analysts believe 0 . the prospect of such a takeover fight has sent jaguar shares soaring in recent weeks . u.s. takeover-stock speculators now own an estimated 25 % of jaguar shares . in a declining london stock market yesterday , jaguar shares were down four pence from monday in late trading , at 694 pence -lrb- $ 11.11 -rrb- a share . in the u.s. , jaguar 's american depositary receipts rose 12.5 cents in over-the-counter trading , to $ 11.25 . both ford and gm badly need a luxury brand 0 to combat new competition from the japanese in the european and u.s. markets . and financially strapped jaguar has spent over a year looking for a rich uncle 0 to provide cash and technological know-how . the company has expressed a preference for gm over ford because gm has promised 0 it would keep jaguar independent . ford 's need to acquire some or all of jaguar became more acute last week when it abandoned a four-year effort to market its german-built merkur scorpio sedan as a european luxury import in the u.s. . then , last friday , ford 's talks about a possible alliance with saab-scania ab of sweden collapsed . gm 's interest in jaguar reflects a desire to help diversify the u.s. company 's products in the growing luxury-car segment of the market . its opel line has a solid image and a recent string of highly successful new models , but it lacks jaguar 's cachet . gm officials also see a lot of potential in marrying jaguar 's cars to the technological know-how of group lotus plc , a british engineering and specialty car maker 0 gm bought in 1986 .