meredith corp. is launching a new service 0 to offer advertisers package deals combining its book , magazine and videocassette products . the des moines-based publisher said 0 it created a new custom marketing group that will offer advertisers special rates for combination packages in its magazines , such as ladies home journal and better homes and gardens . in addition , the group will create custom-designed media such as cookbooks , newspaper inserts and videos for ad campaigns . earlier this year , meredith sold its first such package for $ 3 million to kraft inc. , now a unit of new york-based philip morris cos . the kraft package included a specially published cookbook , a national free-standing insert in sunday newspapers , and a kraft `` advertorial '' section that ran in five meredith magazines . kraft recently agreed to spend an additional $ 3 million on similar programs through 1990 . bill murphy , director of the new marketing unit , said 0 meredith is negotiating other large-scale packages with leading companies in several product categories , but he would n't disclose their names . sources close to the company and ad agencies that work with meredith said 0 leading advertisers in consumer electronics , packaged goods and automotive products were among those negotiating ad packages with the meredith group . other magazine publishing companies have been moving in the same direction . the new york times co. 's magazine group earlier this year began offering advertisers extensive merchandising services built around buying ad pages in its golf digest magazine . time warner inc. recently formed a `` synergy department '' 0 to seek out ways 0 to offer advertisers packages that could combine time 's magazines with warner products such as videocassettes . paul ducharme , director of media services at grey advertising , said 0 meredith is the leader in providing multimedia packages . `` they may get passed up later when other publishers get their acts together , but for now they are the quickest offering the most extensive plan , '' he said . mr. murphy of meredith said 0 one advertiser , which he would n't identify , wants meredith to provide ad pages in seven meredith magazines , publish an interior-decorating book that will be distributed at point of purchase , give away a videotape on installation pointers , and possibly use meredith 's better homes and gardens ' residential real-estate agents to distribute discount-coupon books to new homeowners . `` five years ago , magazine publishers would simply bid on an advertiser 's big ad schedule for their magazine , '' said mr. murphy . `` but the marketplace changed . advertisers now say ` help us improve our image and extend our selling season . ' they are coming to publishers looking for ideas .