the supreme court let stand a new york court 's ruling that the manufacturers of a drug once used to prevent miscarriages must share liability for injuries or deaths when the maker of an individual dose is unknown . the high court 's action , refusing to hear appeals by several drug companies , is likely to have a significant impact at several levels . the most immediate effect is in new york , where former manufacturers of the anti-miscarriage drug des -- the synthetic female hormone diethylstilbestrol -- face the prospect of shared liability for damages in many of the 700 to 1,000 des lawsuits pending in that state . the lawsuits stemmed from the development of cancer and other problems in the daughters of women who took the drug . on a broader scale , the ruling could encourage other states ' courts to adopt the logic of the new york court , not only in des cases but in other product-related lawsuits , as well . the new york court of appeals ruling parallels a 1980 decision by the california supreme court requiring shared liability among manufacturers for injuries when it ca n't be determined which company is at fault . paul rheingold , a new york lawyer who represents des victims , said that before the new york ruling , only the states of washington and wisconsin had followed the california decision . now that the new york decision has been left intact , other states may follow suit . `` generally , when new york and california go one way , it has a tremendous influence on other states , especially small ones , '' said mr. rheingold . the high court refused to hear appeals by rexall drug co. , which went out of business in 1987 and was taken over by rxdc liquidating trust ; e.r. squibb & sons inc. , a unit of squibb corp. ; and eli lilly & co . the appeals involved des , which was approved by the food and drug administration for use from the 1940s until 1971 to prevent miscarriages during pregnancy . in 1971 , the fda banned the use of des after studies linked it to cancer and other problems in daughters of women who took the drug . lawsuits over the harm caused by des have flooded federal and state courts in the past decade . in many cases , the lawsuit was filed long after the drug was used -- the cancer in the daughters was typically not detected for years -- and there is no way 0 to prove which of several companies manufactured the doses consumed by certain women . under traditional legal theories , inability to prove which company manufactured a drug that caused an injury or death would lead to the lawsuit being dismissed . but in its ruling last april , the new york court said that all producers of the anti-miscarriage drug should share liability when the manufacturer of a specific dose ca n't be determined . each company 's share of liability would be based on their share of the national des market . the new york court also upheld a state law , passed in 1986 , extending for one year the statute of limitations on filing des lawsuits . the effect is that lawsuits that might have been barred because they were filed too late could proceed because of the one-year extension . -lrb- rexall drug co. vs. tigue ; e.r. squibb & sons inc. vs. hymowitz , and eli lilly & co. vs. hymowitz -rrb- government contractors the high court , leaving intact a $ 4.25 million damage award against general dynamics corp. , declined to resolve questions about a legal defense against civil lawsuits often used by government contractors . last year , the supreme court defined when companies , such as military contractors , may defend themselves against lawsuits for deaths or injuries by asserting that they were simply following specifications of a federal government contract . in that decision , the high court said 0 a company must prove that the government approved precise specifications for the contract , that those specifications were met and that the government was warned of any dangers in use of the equipment . but last february , a federal appeals court in new orleans upheld a damage award against general dynamics , rejecting the company 's use of the government contractor defense . the appeals court said 0 the defense is valid only if federal officials did more than rubber stamp a company 's design or plans and engaged in a `` substantive review and evaluation '' on a par with a policy decision . general dynamics appealed to the high court , backed by numerous business trade groups , arguing that the appeals court definition restricts the defense too severely . general dynamics was sued by the families of five navy divers who were killed in 1982 after they re-entered a submarine through a diving chamber . the accident was caused by faulty operation of a valve . a federal district court awarded damages to the families and the appeals court affirmed the award . -lrb- general dynamics corp. vs. trevino court in brief in other action yesterday , the high court : -- let stand the mail fraud and conspiracy conviction of john lavery , a former vice president of beech-nut nutrition corp. , a unit of nestle s.a . the conviction stemmed from federal charges of consumer fraud for sale of phony infant apple juice between 1978 and 1983 . -lrb- lavery vs. u.s. . -rrb- -- left intact an award of $ 1.5 million in damages against dow chemical co. in the death of an oregon man from exposure to agent orange . the award was made by a federal court to the widow of a u.s. forest service employee who contracted hodgkin 's disease after using herbicides containing agent orange in a weed-killing program .