we 're sorry to see nigel lawson 's departure from the british government . he is a politician with the courage of true conviction , as in summarily sacking exchange controls and in particular slashing the top rate of income taxation to 40 % . but in the end his resignation as chancellor of the exchequer may be a good thing , especially if it works as he no doubt intends -- by forcing prime minister thatcher and her counterparts elsewhere to confront the genuine intellectual issues involved . the early omens , we admit 0 , scarcely suggest so wholesome an outcome . the fleet street reaction was captured in the guardian headline , `` departure reveals thatcher poison . '' british politicians divide into two groups of chickens , those with their necks cut and those screaming 0 the sky is falling . so far as we can see only two persons are behaving with a dignity recognizing the seriousness of the issues : mr. lawson and sir alan walters , the counterpoint of the chancellor 's difficulties , who also resigned as personal adviser to mrs. thatcher . the problem is that on the vital issue of monetary policy and exchange rates , conservative , free-market economists divide into at least three incompatible camps . there are the strict monetarists , who believe that floating exchange rates free an economy to stabilize its price level by stabilizing the monetary aggregates . there are the supply-side globalists , who seek to spread the advantages of a common currency through fixed exchange rates . and there are the twin-deficit keynesians , who predict\/advocate devaluations 0 to balance trade flows . this is a problem not only for prime minister thatcher but for president bush , as shown in the ongoing bickering over the dollar between the federal reserve and the mulford treasury . in the british case , mr. lawson is the closest thing in london to a supply-side globalist . he not only slashed marginal tax rates , initially sparking fresh growth in britain , but he wanted to regulate monetary policy by targeting exchange rates , indeed joining the european monetary system . while no doubt agreeing with mr. lawson on everything else , sir alan is a dyed-in-the-wool monetarist , inclined to defend floating rates to the death . to make matters even more confusing , the earlier u.s. experience made clear that mr. lawson 's tax cuts would have profound effects on britain 's international accounts and the value of sterling . they increased the after-tax rate of return and made britain a far more attractive place 0 to invest , producing sudden capital inflows . by accounting definitions , this had to produce a sudden trade deficit . as in the u.s. , it also produced a sudden burst in the demand for sterling , that is a surge in the sterling monetary aggregates , m-whatever . at this point , the options were : crunch money to stop the boost in the aggregates , as sir alan surely advised , and forget the soaring pound . to push the pound even lower trying to cure the trade deficit , a policy 0 britain has repeatedly proved disastrous . or to supply enough money 0 to meet the increased demand and stabilize the exchange rate , as the chancellor argued , and ensure the permanence of this policy by joining the ems . faced with a similar situation , paul volcker let the dollar soar , -lrb- though monetary aggregates also grew so rapidly 0 monetarists issued egg-on-the-face warnings of inflation -rrb- . but this devastated the u.s. manufacturing sector , laying the seeds of protectionism . mr. lawson , though not allowed to join the ems , chose to `` shadow '' the deutsche mark . he reaped inflation along with rapid growth , no doubt validating sir alan 's predictions in the prime minister 's mind . but more recently , the pound has been falling with high inflation , which has also seemed almost impervious to the high interest rates 0 mr. lawson deployed to stop it . so the british experience presents a genuine puzzle that reaches far beyond the shores of albion . we had been soliciting opinions on it long before mr. lawson 's resignation , and offer some of the collection for the benefit of his successor and one-time deputy , john major . to begin with , we should note that in contrast to the u.s. deficit , britain has been running largish budget surpluses . in pursuit of this mystery , keynesian adepts and twin-deficit mavens need not apply . we should also add mr. lawson 's own explanation , as we understand it . unlike the u.s. , britain never achieved even a momentary reduction in real wages . the wage stickiness , which oecd studies confirm 0 is particularly high in britain , gives its economy a structural bias toward inflation . inflation is easier 0 to spark and harder 0 to control . we should also concede that in the british experience the monetarist cause regains some of the credibility 0 it lost in the u.s. experience . nearby paul craig roberts , a distinguished supply-sider with monetarist sympathies , argues the case for sir alan . perhaps the fiscal shock of tax cuts is after all best absorbed by floating rates , though of course in the event mr. lawson resigned over whether to support a weak pound , not restrain a strong one . we recall that mr. roberts not only chides the chancellor for being too easy because of a desire to constrain sterling , but also led the chorus saying that mr. volcker was too tight when he let the dollar rise . somewhere in between there must be a golden mean , perhaps measured by m-whatever , but perhaps measured by purchasing power parity . the globalists tend to think 0 mr. lawson ran onto technical reefs . in fixing rates the choice of initial parities is crucial , for example , and perhaps he picked the wrong pound-dm rate . for that matter , perhaps he fixed to the wrong currency . we sympathize with mrs. thatcher 's reluctance to tie her currency to one governed by the domestic political imperatives of west germany . perhaps the shock would have been less if they 'd fixed to another low-tax , deregulated , supply-side economy . alan reynolds of polyconomics adds his suspicion that the unrecognized inflationary culprit is the budget surplus . those who can shake keynesian ghosts out of their heads might recognize that the retirement of gilts for cash is equivalent to an expansionary open-market operation , indeed , it is the definition of an open market operation to expand the money supply . mr. reynolds also notes that since british banks have no reserve requirements , high interest rates are less likely to curb inflation than to cause recession . we would add that in political terms , mrs. thatcher 's problem was failing to decide between the chancellor and her adviser . in the end , neither policy was followed , and instead of learning anything we are left with a mystery . in particular , `` shadowing '' a currency is anything but fixing ; it is an open announcement that the exchange rate target has no credibility . all the more so when strong voices are heard opposing the policy . better to have a true monetarist policy , just for the experience . so mr. lawson had to resign . in the end his move was sparked by remarks in excerpts from sir alan 's autobiography in the american economist , a 10,000-circulation academic journal . but it was the underlying situation that became intolerable . what mr. major and mrs. thatcher will do now remains to be seen . they confront stubborn inflation and a sagging economy , that is to say , stagflation . this can not be solved by provoking a further downturn ; reducing the supply of goods does not solve inflation . our advice is this : immediately return the government surpluses to the economy through incentive-maximizing tax cuts , and find some monetary policy target that balances both supply and demand for money -lrb- which neither aggregates nor interest rates can do -rrb- . this was the version of supply-side economics that , in the late 1970s and early '80s , worked in america and world-wide to solve a far more serious stagflation than afflicts britain today .