tuesday 's earthquake will depress local real-estate values in the short term and force companies to reconsider expanding in or relocating to the bay area and california , real-estate and relocation specialists said 0 . few specialists said 0 they expect the quake to have much of an effect on most california property values . but real-estate experts and brokers said 0 the quake undoubtedly will drag down prices in neighborhoods built on less stable ground , especially in the bay area . `` california prices were already coming down . this is n't going to help , '' said kenneth t. rosen , chairman of the center for real estate and urban economics at the university of california at berkeley . state housing prices , at a median $ 201,028 , have declined in recent months because of potential buyers ' inability to afford homes . mr. rosen , among others , suggested that the quake , the strongest since the 1906 temblor that struck san francisco , will in the short term create a two-tier price system for quake-prone communities , with dwellings built on sturdy ground likely to demand higher prices . one san francisco neighborhood likely to test mr. rosen 's theory soon is the city 's fashionable marina district , which boasts some of the highest home prices in the state . the district , built on landfill , suffered heavy quake damage , including collapsed buildings . yesterday , the city demolished two dwellings in the district because of severe structural damage and said 0 as many as 19 of the district 's 350 dwellings might have to be razed . brokers agreed with the two-tier price theory . `` my gut feeling is that the marina properties will be affected , '' said grace perkins , senior vice president at grubb & ellis residential brokerage inc . neither she nor other real-estate executives and brokers could project how much less marina properties might bring , but she said 0 the two-tier price structure would affect prices `` for a while . '' mr. rosen said 0 the quake will revive consumer interest in a little-publicized 1972 state law that requires brokers to disclose to potential buyers how close a property sits to a fault line . because of the size of the california market , few relocation specialists expect a widespread corporate flight in the quake 's aftermath . but they said 0 the quake will force some companies to relocate or expand part or all of their operations outside the state . `` what you 're going to get is ` we do n't want to put all of our eggs in one basket ' theory , '' said james h. renzas , president of location management services inc. , a palo alto , calif. , relocation concern . mr. renzas , among others , said 0 the quake will prod companies in certain industries , like semiconductors , computers and aerospace , to consider moving operations that involve particularly sensitive machinery to locations outside california . because of the quake threat , `` some firms have evaluated what the cost is to shore up their buildings and compared it with the cost of building it elswehere , '' he said 0 . one southern california aerospace firm , for example , two months ago asked location management to compare the costs of reinforcing its current building against earthquakes with the cost of building a new structure elsewhere . a new dwelling would cost $ 21 million , location management found 0 , compared with $ 22 million to make the present building earthquake-proof . the company , mr. renzas said 0 , has n't yet determined what to do .