economist david n. laband 's sept. 27 editorial-page article , `` in hugo 's path , a man-made disaster , '' decries the control of price gouging , swiftly ordered by south carolina 's governor after hurricane hugo . according to mr. laband , `` screaming '' for price controls occurs when income redistribution `` threatens to hit home . '' to be sure , the threat has hit home down here . yet in mr. laband 's rehash of free-market logic , human greed and self-interest are the only permissible psychological reactions . allowing uncontrolled prices for necessities would indeed shorten the lines at stores , as he contends 0 . but not because resources are going to their most efficient use , leaving scarce goods `` allocated to those buyers who place the highest value on them . '' rather , lines would diminish because at higher prices many victims could not afford necessities such as food and medical supplies . it is inhumane to imply that a poor , unemployed woman can not receive immediate relief for her family at fair prices because she does not have as much 0 to protect as a rich family . moreover , essential relief supplies such as ice must be distributed throughout the population because of potential health problems from spoiled food and possible outbreak of disease . such spillover effects give the state a right to intervene in the marketplace and temporarily coordinate allocation of resources . fortunately , volunteers and charities are not motivated by self-interest , but by altruism . why should they have to co-exist with opportunists rushing in to turn a quick profit ? these latter-day scalawags would be ill-advised to take advantage of the situation , if they ever expect to face the people of south carolina again . the government is actually protecting avaricious ice-baggers and other profiteers who can not see beyond their own short-term gain . south carolina deserves an a for its quick and timely relief efforts . mr. laband , meanwhile , gets an a for his rote recital of economic-efficiency arguments . give him an f for his failure to understand the ethics of economic equity . signed by 25 students of douglas woodward 's honors economics class , university of south carolina columbia , s.c . mr. laband gives us an idea why economists ' predictions are usually wrong . they set up absurd situations , detached from reality , and then try to reason from them . i 'm surprised 0 he did n't advocate letting people loot , since that behavior can also be foreseen in a disaster and `` every individual has an incentive to alter the distribution of income in his favor . '' price controls were `` so fervently embraced by charleston '' because price gouging in this situation is equivalent to looting . suzanne foster galax , va . mr. laband described one of the more insidious threats 0 we face when dealing with disasters such as hugo -- anti-profiteering ordinances such as that by the charleston city council as it thrashed about trying to do something . since he concentrated on the economic folly of such ordinances , he did n't mention certain other of their effects . they divert law-enforcement resources at a time 0 they are most needed for protecting lives and property . also , rather than increase supplies , they reduce them and encourage hoarding . and they , or even the prospect of them , discourage disaster preparedness in the form of speculative advance stocking of supplies by merchants . n. joseph potts miami lakes , fla . would mr. laband also suggest that the red cross , salvation army , military units , police , fire departments , rescue units and individual citizens cease their efforts to assist hugo 's victims because they interfere with his concept of the `` free market '' ? what about those caring people all over the country who are donating food , water and other necessities of life to these people who could be any of us ? should they , too , stop `` messing with '' his free market ? maybe he thinks 0 they should also sell to the highest bidder . and what about insurance firms ? should they be required to pay claims based on exorbitant costs for labor and materials ? mr. laband should beware , since he lives in south carolina . in a free market , his insurance rates can be raised to recover insurance-company losses . john w. rush marietta , ga . having been through several tornadoes and hurricanes , i have a different perspective . mine comes from seeing thriving communities devastated -- but only temporarily . their recovery came surprisingly fast , and always with the help of neighbors . the shock of seeing homes destroyed and city services disrupted may cause some to confuse priorities such as the true economic value of a freezer full of meat . in texas after hurricane alicia , major grocery chains used their truck fleets to ship essential goods to houston , no gouging , just good will . tom mongan victoria , texas we here in the affected areas were dazzled by mr. laband 's analysis of time values and his comparisons of effectiveness concerning research and development . his theoretical approach and its publication in this venerable paper are no doubt a noteworthy accomplishment for him . too bad theory fails in practice . we consumers tend to have long memories . the businesses subscribing to mr. laband 's effective price system will be remembered when normalcy returns . perhaps , considering the value of our time , we will be unable to patronize their establishments in the post-hugo era . i have a question for mr. laband : how do i explain to the single mother of three standing in line next to me for the past three hours that the two bags of ice 0 she needs to keep her children 's food edible will take her last $ 20 ? i 'm sure 0 she 'll appreciate what an efficient reaction to her problems the price system has created . chris edgar myrtle beach , s.c .