with airline deals in a tailspin , legendary wall street trader michael steinhardt could have trouble parachuting out of usair group , traders say 0 . only a week ago , when airline buy-out fever was already winding down , mr. steinhardt was engaged in a duel with usair . he was threatening to take over the carrier , after spending an estimated $ 167 million to build an 8.4 % usair stake for his investment clients . the would-be raider even hired an investment banker to give teeth to his takeover threat , which was widely interpreted as an effort to flush out an acquirer for usair , or for his own stake . in fighting usair , mr. steinhardt was pitted against another investor , billionnaire warren buffett , who bought into usair to help fend off mr. steinhardt . mr. buffett 's firm , berkshire hathaway , holds a much bigger stake in the carrier than mr. steinhardt 's firm , steinhardt partners . now , in the wake of ual 's troubles in financing its buy-out , the airline raiding game has been grounded . instead of hoping to sell his usair stake at analysts ' estimated buy-out price of $ 80 a share , mr. steinhardt is stuck with roughly 3.7 million usair shares that cost him $ 45 , on average , but yesterday closed at 40 1\/2 , up 1\/4 , in new york stock exchange composite trading . `` it does n't make sense to parachute out at this price , '' mr. steinhardt says , though he has stopped his takeover talk and now commends usair managers ' `` operating skills . '' at the current price , the usair holding represents 9 % of all the assets that mr. steinhardt manages . a week ago , usair stock briefly soared above 52 after a report in usa today that mr. steinhardt might launch a hostile bid for the carrier , though takeover speculators say 0 they were skeptical . `` if usair is worth 80 as a takeover and the stock went to 52 , the market was saying 0 steinhardt 's presence was n't worth anything , in terms of getting a deal done , '' says a veteran takeover speculator . traders say 0 this all goes to show that even the smartest money manager can get infected with crowd passions . in trying to raid usair , mr. steinhardt abandoned his usual role as a passive investor , and ran into snags . moreover , unlike mr. buffett , who often holds big stakes in companies for years , mr. steinhardt has n't in the past done much long-term investing . mr. steinhardt , who runs about $ 1.7 billion for steinhardt partners , made his name as a gunslinging trader , moving in and out of stocks with agility -- enriching himself and his investment clients . meanwhile , his big losses , for instance in 1987 's crash , generally have been trading losses . so , some see a special irony in the fact that mr. steinhardt , the trader , now is encumbered with a massive , illiquid airline holding . analysts say 0 usair stock might lose four or five points if the steinhardt stake was dumped all at once . as a result , mr. steinhardt must reconcile himself to selling usair at a loss , or to holding the shares as an old-fashioned investment . `` long-term investing -- that 's not steinhardt 's style , '' chuckles an investor who once worked at steinhardt partners . `` he does n't usually risk that much unless he thinks 0 he has an ace in the hole , '' adds another steinhardt partners alumnus . in recent days , traders say 0 usair has been buying its own shares , as part of a program to retire about eight million usair shares , though the carrier wo n't discuss its buy-back program . if usair stepped up its share purchases , that might be a way 0 for mr. steinhardt to get out , says 0 timothy pettee , a merrill lynch analyst . but usair might not want to help mr. steinhardt , he adds 0 . in 1987 , usair chairman edwin colodny stonewalled when trans world airlines chairman carl icahn threatened to take over the carrier . mr. icahn , a much more practiced raider than mr. steinhardt , eventually sold a big usair stake at a tiny profit through bear , stearns . mr. steinhardt also could take that route . he confers big trading commissions on wall street firms . however , with airline stocks cratering , he might not get a very good price for his shares , traders say 0 . especially galling for mr. steinhardt , say 0 people close to him , is that usair 's mr. colodny wo n't even take his telephone calls . while usair is n't considered absolutely takeover-proof , its defenses , including the sale in august of a 12 % stake in the company to mr. buffett 's berkshire hathaway , are pretty strong . usair 's deal with mr. buffett `` was n't exactly a shining example of shareholder democracy , '' mr. steinhardt says 0 . since last april , the investor has made seven so-called 13d filings in usair , as he bought and sold the company 's stock . such disclosures of big holdings often are used by raiders to try to scare a company 's managers , and to stir interest in the stock . but of course it would be highly unusual for an investment fund such as steinhardt partners to take over a company . usair and mr. buffett wo n't talk about mr. steinhardt at all . analysts say 0 usair has great promise . by the second half of 1990 , usair stock could hit 60 , says 0 helane becker of shearson lehman hutton . she thinks 0 traders should buy the stock if it tumbles to 35 . but meanwhile , usair is expected to show losses or lackluster profit for several quarters as it tries to digest piedmont airlines , which it acquired . moreover , some investors think 0 a recession or renewed airfare wars will pummel airline stocks in coming months . however , mr. steinhardt says 0 he 's `` comfortable holding usair as an investment . '' while he has bought and sold some usair shares in recent days , he says that contrary to rumors , he has n't tried to unload his holding . mr. steinhardt adds that he bought usair stock earlier this year as `` part of a fundamental investment in the airline group . '' in 1989 , mr. steinhardt says 0 he made money trading in texas air , amr and ual . overall , his investments so far this year are showing gains of about 20 % , he adds 0 . does mr. steinhardt regret his incursion into the takeover-threat game ? people close to the investor say 0 that was an experiment 0 he is unlikely to repeat . `` i do n't think 0 you 'll find 0 i 'm making a radical change in my traditional investment style , '' mr. steinhardt says .