the metal and marble lobby of centrust bank 's headquarters is grander than your average savings and loan . for one thing , there is an old master on the wall -- `` samuel anointing david , '' a big baroque canvas painted by mattia preti , a 17th-century neapolitan . at the moment , however , the painting is a nagging reminder of the problems that have engulfed centrust and its flamboyant chairman and chief executive , david l. paul . in an international buying spree that began barely two years ago , mr. paul amassed a collection of about 30 pre-18th-century works , including the preti , at a total cost of $ 28 million . by midnight oct. 6 , all of the paintings were supposed to have been sold off , under orders from florida 's comptroller , whose office regulates the state 's s&ls . centrust did n't meet the deadline . the collection was at the heart of a grandiose plan 0 mr. paul had in which the art was to do double duty -- as an investment for centrust and as decoration for the s&l 's new office tower , designed by i.m. pei . the rub is that the $ 28 million was plucked from the funds of this federally insured institution even as centrust was losing money hand over fist . mr. paul had no right to buy art for the s&l in the first place -- it is n't on the comptroller 's `` permissible '' list -- without seeking a special dispensation , which he did not do . besides that , some of the paintings that were to grace the walls of centrust actually ended up hanging in the chairman 's estate on la gorce isle off miami beach . last spring , the comptroller 's office called a halt to mr. paul 's fling , giving him six months 0 to sell the paintings . the acquisitions , officials said 0 in a letter to mr. paul , were `` unsafe , unsound and unauthorized . '' so far , mr. paul has unloaded but three of his masterpieces , he wo n't say to whom . the comptroller 's office says 0 it is `` monitoring the situation . '' though the agency could remove mr. paul , it has no current intention to do that . `` it 's not like selling chevrolets , '' mr. paul says , as he takes a drag on a goldbanded st. moritz cigarette . `` the last six months has established the quality of the collection . there 's no fire sale here . '' despite mr. paul 's characteristic hauteur , the 50-year-old , chain-smoking dynamo is finding that getting centrust -- florida 's largest thrift institution -- out of its riskiest investments is much tougher than getting into them had been . paintings are just part of the picture . although mr. paul has pared a $ 1.35 billion junk-bond portfolio to less than $ 900 million since april , the high-yield debt market has plummeted . divesting itself of what is left , as is required of all thrift institutions by july 1994 under the new federal s&l bailout law , may well prove difficult . and centrust has other problems . late last week federal regulators ordered the thrift institution to stop paying dividends on its preferred stock -- a move that suggests deep concern about an institution . mr. paul has a plan to bring in $ 150 million by selling off 63 of centrust 's 71 branches , but it has yet to be approved by regulators . it is mr. paul 's art venture , however , that has drawn the most attention from investors and regulators , not to mention galleries throughout the world . embittered shareholders -lrb- some of whom are suing -rrb- say 0 the chairman and his collection epitomize the excesses of speculation that set off the national s&l crisis . -lrb- centrust shares have fallen sharply in price from a high of $ 15.125 in 1986 to close yesterday at $ 2.875 . -rrb- gallery directors , meanwhile , say 0 mr. paul and others of his ilk have left an indelible mark on the art world -- and not for the better . collectors do n't say `` it 's a van gogh '' anymore , laments 0 harry brooks , the president of wildenstein & co. , a new york gallery . `` they say , ` johnny payson got $ 53 million for his , so certainly $ 10 million is n't too much for mine . ' the great collectors 0 we depended on , such as paul mellon or norton simon , have stopped buying , and the new buyers are brilliant men who made money in the stock market or in takeovers and rushed into collecting ... . '' mr. payson , an art dealer and collector , sold vincent van gogh 's `` irises '' at a sotheby 's auction in november 1987 to australian businessman alan bond . -lrb- trouble is , mr. bond has yet to pay up , and until he does , sotheby 's has the painting under lock and key . -rrb- when mr. paul moved in on the art market , he let it be known that virtually no piece was too costly 0 to be considered by centrust . he established his reputation as a freespender in january last year at sotheby 's auction of the linda and gerald guterman collection in new york . there , on one of his first shopping trips , mr. paul picked up several paintings at stunning prices . he paid $ 2.2 million , for instance , for a still life by jan jansz. den uyl that was expected to fetch perhaps $ 700,000 . the price paid was a record for the artist . -lrb- some 64 % of items offered at the guterman auction were sold , at an average price of $ 343,333 . the rest were withdrawn for lack of acceptable bids . -rrb- afterward , mr. paul is said by mr. guterman to have phoned mr. guterman , the new york developer selling the collection , and gloated . `` he says 0 he ` stole them , ' '' recalls mr. guterman . `` and he tells me , ` if you want to see your paintings , you 'll have to come to my house in florida . ' '' mr. paul denies phoning and gloating . `` it 's just not true , '' he says . mr. paul quickly became more aggressive in his collecting , with the help of george wachter , a sotheby 's expert in old masters whom he met at an exhibition of the guterman items . mr. wachter , who became his principal adviser , searched galleries in london , paris and monaco . and , according to one dealer , mr. wachter had a penchant for introducing mr. paul with the phrase : `` he can buy anything . '' nicholas hall , the president of the colnaghi u.s.a. ltd. gallery in new york , sold mr. paul `` abraham and sarah in the wilderness '' by giovanni battista tiepolo . mr. hall says 0 mr. paul `` was known to spend a lot of money . people were interested in seeing him , but it was recognized that the route was through sotheby 's and particularly george wachter . '' mr. paul thus developed a close , symbiotic relationship with sotheby 's . mr. paul was eager to assemble a collection for the headquarters 0 centrust has been moving into for the greater part of a year . sotheby 's , the auction house founded in london 1744 and now under the umbrella of sotheby 's holdings inc. , was hoping to stir up interest in old masters as it strove to build its u.s. business . european dealers continued to dominate the action in old masters , which sotheby 's north america had lately been touting in this country . for several months , there was optimism all around . last october , mr. paul paid out $ 12 million of centrust 's cash -- plus a $ 1.2 million commission -- for `` portrait of a man as mars . '' the painting , attributed to flemish artist peter paul rubens , was purchased privately through sotheby 's , not at auction . in march 1989 , just 15 months into his campaign , mr. paul was named by art & antiques magazine as one of the top 100 individual collectors in the u.s. . `` an unknown quantity to most of the art world , paul is no stranger to lavish spending , '' the magazine said , noting that he does n't stop at paint on canvas but also spends big on art 0 you can eat . `` he recently bid $ 30,000 at a paris charity auction for a dinner cooked by six of the world 's great chefs , but the final party cost closer to $ 100,000 . '' -lrb- mr. paul says 0 it was n't that high . -rrb- the art collection might have come to rival the medicis ' had the florida comptroller 's office not got wind of mr. paul 's aesthetic adventure . in its letter to him , dated march 2 and shared with reporters , alex hager , the chief of the thrift-institution bureau in the comptroller 's office , expressed puzzlement that the s&l could be so profligate when it had reported losses of more than $ 13 million in its two preceding quarters . the state gave centrust 30 days 0 to sell the rubens . the comptroller 's office eventually extended the deadline to six months but broadened its demands , ordering that the `` book value of the collection -lcb- be -rcb- reduced to zero . '' in other words : get rid of all the pictures . the state obliquely noted that unsafe banking practices are grounds for removing an officer or director and closed with the admonition to mr. paul : `` govern yourself accordingly . '' the state agency was particularly vexed to learn that the rubens and a half-dozen other paintings listed among the bank 's `` furniture and fixtures , '' were actually hanging in the chairman 's house . mr. paul says that at one point he did indeed have eight or nine of the paintings at home and that the rest were in storage at sotheby 's . he explains that he was `` merely storing the paintings at home -- with some display -- because of the special dehumidified environment '' required for their safekeeping , until centrust 's new building was ready for them . still , the incident was embarrassing . it came on the heels of a number of local newspaper articles suggesting that mr. paul has benefited handsomely from his association with centrust . for instance , he got a $ 3 million loan from the s&l , negotiated at a below-market rate . he owns 43 % of centrust 's shares . adding to mr. paul 's problems , dealers -lrb- some with vested interests -rrb- insist that he , relying rather too heavily on sotheby 's advice , paid much too much for several pieces in the centrust collection . the $ 12 million lavished on the rubens , for example , was a record price for the artist and maybe twice its value , given a dispute among scholars about its provenance . david tunick , the president of david tunick inc. , a new york gallery , says 0 scholars question the authenticity of the rubens . it may have been painted instead by a rubens associate . `` the feeling among many experts on the commercial side is that the price paid at the time was excessive in any event , '' mr. tunick says . `` it sounds like with the rubens he got absolutely taken to the cleaners . '' victor wiener , the executive director of the appraisers association of america , agrees that mr. paul paid very dearly for the rubens and adds that getting rid of it any time soon for a similar sum would be quite a feat . `` it 's not beyond credibility 0 the rubens will someday be worth $ 12 million , but whether it could be sold for that amount tomorrow remains to be seen . '' still , predicting is tricky . `` i 'm forever dumbfounded by what i see making these high prices . '' jonathan h. kress , the son of the painting 's former owner , mrs. rush kress , dismisses the price talk as `` sour grapes . '' dealers contemptuous of the purchase price , he says 0 , were themselves interested in buying the rubens but lost out . mr. paul , for his part , defends the rubens price , saying 0 a lot of the experts have never seen the thing itself . `` most of them were n't even born the last time 0 the painting was displayed publicly , '' he says . art prices are skyrocketing , but a good deal of legerdemain is involved in compiling statistics on sales . salomon brothers inc. , the investment-banking firm , in its annual tally of investment returns , reported that old masters appreciated 51 % in the year ended june 1 , the greatest return of any of 13 assets 0 it tracked . -lrb- impressionist and modern paintings , not tracked by salomon , are ranked even higher at 74 % by sotheby 's . -rrb- salomon , moreover , gets its data on art appreciation from sotheby 's , whose prices go up with clients like mr. paul in its thrall . the percentages omit from consideration the many paintings that go begging at auction . art indexes track winners , not losers . but art that has fallen sharply in value is rarely put up for sale . also , at any of sotheby 's auctions of old masters , roughly one-third to one-fifth of what is offered does n't sell at any price . it 's not that there are n't any bids , but the bids do n't meet the minimum `` reserve '' prices set by the sellers . in january , the preti painting that now hangs at centrust was expected to bring no more than $ 700,000 at auction until mr. paul came along with his $ 1.15 million . mr. hall of the colnaghi gallery says 0 $ 1.15 million `` would have been an impossible price 0 for anyone to ask for a preti four years ago . '' but from his vantage point , it is n't that mr. paul , a customer of his too , overpaid for the work , `` a gargantuan painting by an artist who is not a household word . '' -lrb- the painting is 10 feet wide , seven feet high . -rrb- rather , `` it just shows 0 things have changed . '' mr. paul boasts that he spotted bargains in old masters just before they took an upward turn . `` they went up 51 % last year , and they 'll do it again this year , '' he declares . `` they were a sleeper . everybody was out buying monets . '' sotheby 's vice president diana levitt says 0 the auction house has been `` assisting '' mr. paul in selling the paintings . and while sotheby 's chief rivals in the art world , private art dealers , `` wo n't be happy to hear it , '' she adds 0 , `` a number of -lcb- the artworks -rcb- have already been sold , and at a substantial profit . '' mr. paul claims to have sold three paintings , at more than a 10 % profit . that is n't 51 % , and the claim is n't documented . he furthermore denies that he relied too heavily on sotheby 's or mr. wachter . mr. paul says 0 he had not one but four advisers and that he never bid impulsively . after all , he had the counsel of `` curators from the most reputable museums in the world . '' he says 0 he expects to sell the collection -- including the controversial rubens -- `` carefully and prudently , just as it was put together . '' but in art-world parlance , mr. paul 's holdings are `` burnt . '' that is , he is being compelled to put them on the market too soon , and has already gotten offers that are less than he paid for some of the art works . `` after a few years , you can argue 0 there has been natural appreciation , '' says susan theran , the publisher of leonard 's annual price index of art auctions . but quick turnover in artwork is `` like pawning your jewelry -- you end up with 50 % . people hold out and try to get a bargain . '' sotheby 's defends itself and mr. paul in the matter . mr. wachter says 0 mr. paul was a quick study who worked intensely and bought the best pictures available at the moment . `` on occasion , he paid a high price , '' mr. wachter concedes 0 , but he says 0 those who bid less and dropped out were dealers who would then have marked up the paintings to resell them at a profit to collectors . naomi bernhard levinson , a fine-arts appraiser at bernhard associates in san francisco , considers it `` definite conflict of interest for an auction house to both advise a client on purchases and to set price estimates on the paintings 0 to be purchased . '' sotheby 's , she says 0 , is `` wearing both hats . '' `` i ca n't see why there would be a conflict of interest , '' says sotheby 's ms. levitt . `` estimates are based on the previous price of similar works sold at auction and current market conditions , and are not affected by any knowledge of who the potential buyer could be . '' frequently , clients express interest in paintings but do n't end up bidding , she adds 0 , `` so we do n't know who the potential buyer will be . '' mr. paul , in selling off his paintings , is seeking at least a 15 % return on the bank 's investment , so as to prove that the venture was sound . mr. paul says that he has feelers out over much of the globe and that potential buyers from as far away as japan and italy have examined the collection . because of the pressure on centrust to sell , dealers and collectors have been trying to get the paintings at bargain-basement prices . but so far , mr. paul and his advisers are holding fast . one dealer , martin zimet of french & co. in new york , says 0 he `` would have loved to buy '' a jan davids de heem painting from the bank . `` i tried to steal the picture -- to buy it attractively -- and -lcb- sotheby 's -rcb- would n't do it . they were protecting his interests . '' meanwhile , mr. paul and centrust executives are getting squeamish about opulence . mr. paul has been characterized as `` the great gatsby or something , '' complains 0 karen e. brinkman , an executive vice president of centrust . the media , she says 0 , have distorted his personal life . mr. paul nods in agreement . `` i do n't think 0 i have a life style that is , frankly , so flamboyant , '' he says . but at just that moment , he is interrupted in his office by a servant in tuxedo who pours coffee from silver into a cup of china and dabs the brim with linen . mr. paul says , 0 yes , the ceiling in his executive suite is gold-leaf inlay . the offices are done in hardwood and oriental rugs , leatherbound books and , of course , a $ 12 million rubens . but he implores that the splendor be played down . `` do n't say 0 it 's a gold ceiling . just say 0 the offices are tastefully appointed , '' he says . `` otherwise , the regulators will take it for decadence , and nowadays everything 's got to be pristine . '' figures do n't include taxes or transaction costs .