the oil industry 's middling profits could persist through the rest of the year . major oil companies in the next few days are expected to report much less robust earnings than they did for the third quarter a year ago , largely reflecting deteriorating chemical prices and gasoline profitability . the gasoline picture may improve this quarter , but chemicals are likely to remain weak , industry executives and analysts say 0 , reducing chances that profits could equal their year-earlier performance . the industry is `` seeing a softening somewhat in volume and certainly in price in petrochemicals , '' glenn cox , president of phillips petroleum co. , said 0 in an interview . `` that change will obviously impact third and fourth quarter earnings '' for the industry in general , he added 0 . he did n't forecast phillips 's results . but securities analysts say 0 phillips will be among the companies hard-hit by weak chemical prices and will probably post a drop in third-quarter earnings . so , too , many analysts predict 0 , will exxon corp. , chevron corp. and amoco corp . typical is what happened to the price of ethylene , a major commodity chemical produced in vast amounts by many oil companies . it has plunged 13 % since july to around 26 cents a pound . a year ago ethylene sold for 33 cents , peaking at about 34 cents last december . a big reason for the chemical price retreat is overexpansion . beginning in mid-1987 , prices began accelerating as a growing u.s. economy and the weak dollar spurred demand . companies added capacity furiously . now , greatly increased supplies are on the market , while the dollar is stronger , and domestic economic growth is slower . third-quarter profits from gasoline were weaker . `` refining margins were so good in the third quarter of last year and generally not very good this year , '' said william randol , a securities analyst at first boston corp . oil company refineries ran flat out to prepare for a robust holiday driving season in july and august that did n't materialize . the excess supply pushed gasoline prices down in that period . in addition , crude oil prices were up some from a year earlier , further pressuring profitability . refiners say 0 margins picked up in september , and many industry officials believe 0 gasoline profits will rebound this quarter , though still not to the level of 1988 's fourth quarter . during the 1988 second half , many companies posted record gasoline and chemical profits . crude oil production may turn out to be the most surprising element of companies ' earnings this year . prices -- averaging roughly $ 2 a barrel higher in the third quarter than a year earlier -- have stayed well above most companies ' expectations . demand has been much stronger than anticipated , and it typically accelerates in the fourth quarter . `` we could see higher oil prices this year , '' said bryan jacoboski , an analyst at painewebber inc . that will translate into sharply higher production profits , particularly compared with last year when oil prices steadily fell to below $ 13 a barrel in the fourth quarter . while oil prices have been better than expected , natural gas prices have been worse . in the third quarter , they averaged about 5 % less than they were in 1988 . the main reason remains weather . last summer was notable for a heat wave and drought that caused utilities to burn more natural gas to feed increased electrical demand from air conditioning use . this summer , on the other hand , had milder weather than usual . `` we 've been very disappointed in the performance of natural gas prices , '' said mr. cox , phillips 's president . `` the lagging gas price is not going to assist fourth quarter performance as many had expected 0 . '' going into the fourth quarter , natural gas prices are anywhere from 8 % to 17 % lower than a year earlier . for instance , natural gas currently produced along the gulf coast is selling on the spot market for around $ 1.47 a thousand cubic feet , down 13 % from $ 1.69 a thousand cubic feet a year ago .