rep. john dingell , an important sponsor of president bush 's clean-air bill , plans to unveil a surprise proposal that would break with the white house on a centerpiece issue : acid rain . the michigan democrat 's proposal , which is expected today , is described by government sources and lobbyists as significantly weaker than the bush administration 's plan to cut utility emissions that lead to acid rain . the administration 's plan could cost utilities , mainly those that use coal , up to $ 4 billion a year . the proposal comes as a surprise even to administration officials and temporarily throws into chaos the house 's work on clean-air legislation . as chairman of the house energy and commerce committee , mr. dingell has almost single-handed control over clean-air legislation . people close to the utility industry said 0 mr. dingell 's proposal appears to guarantee only an estimated seven-million-ton cut in annual sulfur-dioxide emissions that lead to acid rain , though additional cuts could be ordered later . mr. bush 's legislative package promises to cut emissions by 10 million tons -- basically in half -- by the year 2000 . although final details were n't available , sources said 0 the dingell plan would abandon the president 's proposal for a cap on utilities ' sulfur-dioxide emissions . that proposal had been hailed by environmentalists but despised by utilities because they feared 0 it would limit their growth . it also would junk an innovative market-based system for trading emissions credits among polluters . in addition , it is believed to offer a cost-sharing mechanism that would help subsidize the clean-up costs for the dirtiest coal-fired utilities in the country , sparing their customers from exorbitant jumps in their electric bills . the administration , sticking to its vow of avoiding tax increases , has staunchly opposed cost-sharing . mr. dingell 's staff was expected to present its acid-rain alternative to other committee members , apparently in an attempt to appease midwestern lawmakers from high-polluting states who insist on cost-sharing . it is n't clear , however , whether support for the proposal will be broad enough to pose a serious challenge to the white house 's acid-rain plan . while the new proposal might appeal to the dirtiest utilities , it might not win the support of utilities , many in the west , that already have added expensive cleanup equipment or burn cleaner-burning fuels . lawmakers representing some of the cleaner utilities have been quietly working with the white house to devise ways 0 to tinker with the administration bill to address their acid-rain concerns .