-lrb- during its centennial year , the wall street journal will report events of the past century that stand as milestones of american business history . -rrb- soft contact lenses won federal blessing on march 18 , 1971 , and quickly became eye openers for their makers . the food and drug administration that day said 0 bausch & lomb could start selling them in the u.s. . the cornflake-size product was more comfortable and less prone to falling out than hard contact lenses , which had been around since 1939 . bausch & lomb sold the softies under a sublicense from national patent development , which had gained the rights from the czechoslovakia academy of sciences . otto wichterle , a czech , invented them in 1962 . the plastic lens wraps itself over the cornea , absorbing eye moisture while permitting oxygen to pass through . but the new lens became the eye of a storm . in september 1971 california officials seized `` bootlegged '' lenses -- made by unlicensed companies -- after some showed traces of bacteria . in october doctors were debating the product 's safety , some claiming 0 it caused infections . and there were senate hearings on the questions in july 1972 . the product overcame the bad publicity and kept evolving . the early soft lenses , which cost $ 300 a set , were expected to last for a year . in 1983 `` extended wear '' versions , designed to be worn for 30 days at a time , wree offered . eighteen months ago a `` disposable '' seven-day model bowed ; a year 's supply costs about $ 500 . last month the fda and contact lens institute cautioned users that serious eye infections could result from wearing lenses more than seven days at a stretch . today 20 million of the 25 million americans using contact lenses are using the soft type . including the accesory eye care products , contacts account for $ 2 billion in annual retail sales . although bausch remains the leader among the six majors , johnson & johnson , with its new disposables , is coming on fast .