now was that a quarter cup or a half cup ? not a gripping question , unless you 're the pastry chef of this city 's chez panisse restaurant and you 've just lost your priceless personal dessert notebook . chez panisse was listed among the top 30 restaurants in the world this year by connoisseur magazine . the tattered black binder , bulging with 18 years ' worth of recipes held together by rubber bands , was in chef lindsey shere 's purse when it was stolen from her house recently . the berkeley police do n't have any leads but doubt 0 the crime was driven by a passion for sweets . instead , they figure 0 the culprit probably took money from ms. shere 's wallet and discarded all the tips in the five-by-eight-inch looseleaf . chez panisse , whose founder , alice waters , is considered the inventor of the cooking style known as california cuisine and whose patrons make reservations a month in advance , has n't exactly subjected diners to vanilla ice cream because of the theft . for one thing , ms. shere can draw on her cookbook , published by random house four years ago , which is teeming with recipes for such specialties as kiwi sherbet , gooseberry fool -lrb- a creamy dish made with crushed stewed berries -rrb- and hazelnut `` oeufs a la neige . '' for another , sympathetic fans have sent ms. shere copies of her recipes clipped from magazines over the years . still , the restaurant 's ever-changing menu of five-course dinners -- it supposedly has n't repeated a meal since opening in 1971 -- requires constant improvisation . and that puts added pressure on chez panisse dessert-menu planners . `` we make what we know how to make , '' says business manager richard mazzera . many in the bay area 's pastry community express disbelief that ms. shere kept only one copy of such valuable notes , but she has received moral support from baker 's dozen , a group of california pastry chefs that meets regularly to discuss issues like how to keep meringues from weeping and how bovine eating habits affect butter texture . ms. shere has offered a $ 500 reward for the book 's return but figures 0 she 'll have to reinvent many recipes from scratch . `` it 's an overwhelming job , '' she says . `` there are so many possible proportions when you consider how many things are made out of eggs and butter and milk .