an american journalist now is standing trial in namibia . this is the place that world opinion has been celebrating over in the expectation that it 's going to hold an election . the most likely winner will be the marxist-dominated swapo rebels . the u.s. journalist 's `` crime '' was writing that the head of the commission charged with overseeing the election 's fairness , bryan o'linn , was openly sympathetic to swapo . shortly after that , mr. o'linn had scott stanley arrested and his passport confiscated . mr. stanley is on trial over charges that he violated a proclamation , issued by the south african administrator general earlier this year , which made it a crime punishable by two years in prison for any person to `` insult , disparate or belittle '' the election commission . the stanley affair does n't bode well for the future of democracy or freedom of anything in namibia when swapo starts running the government . to the extent 0 mr. stanley has done anything wrong , it may be that he is out of step with the consensus of world intellectuals that the namibian guerrillas were above all else the victims of suppression by neighboring south africa . swapo has enjoyed favorable western media treatment ever since the u.n. general assembly declared it the `` sole , authentic representative '' of namibia 's people in last year , the u.s. brokered a peace settlement to remove cuba 's `` afrika korps '' from angola and hold `` free and fair '' elections that would end south africa 's control of namibia . the elections are set for nov. 7 . in july , mr. stanley , editor of american press international , a washington d.c.-based conservative wire service , visited namibia to report on the u.n.-monitored election campaign . he interviewed mr. o'linn , head of a commission charged with investigating electoral intimidation , and reported that mr. o'linn was openly sympathetic to swapo and indeed had defended its leaders in court . after mr. stanley 's article was published in two namibian newspapers , mr. o'linn had criminal charges brought against their editors , publisher and lawyer . mr. stanley was arrested and charged along with the others when he returned to namibia this month . both the state department and the lawyers committee for freedom of the press have protested mr. stanley 's detention . mr. stanley 's arrest is the latest in a series of incidents that threaten to derail namibia 's elections . both south african and swapo extremists are intimidating voters . the u.s. is in the habit of arranging peace settlements and then washing its hands over the tragic results . it now has the chance to redress that record in namibia . state and the human-rights community should insist that mr. stanley and his fellow defendants be released and that the united nation 's monitors make certain that mr. o'linn's commission investigates election complaints from all sides .