legal controversies in america have a way of assuming a symbolic significance far exceeding what is involved in the particular case . they speak volumes about the state of our society at a given moment . it has always been so . in the 1920s , a young schoolteacher , john t. scopes , volunteered to be a guinea pig in a test case sponsored by the american civil liberties union to challenge a ban on the teaching of evolution imposed by the tennessee legislature . the result was a world-famous trial exposing profound cultural conflicts in american life between the `` smart set , '' whose spokesman was h.l. mencken , and the religious fundamentalists , whom mencken derided as benighted primitives . few now recall the actual outcome : scopes was convicted and fined $ 100 , and his conviction was reversed on appeal because the fine was excessive under tennessee law . so it was with the hiss case a generation later , when alger hiss became a lightning rod for the anxieties of the cold war and conflicting attitudes toward the new deal 0 he had served . his trials aroused public passions out of all proportion to the rather banal secrets 0 he allegedly had passed to soviet intelligence . and so it seems to be with the case of elizabeth morgan , the washington , d.c. , plastic surgeon jailed in a child custody case for refusing to reveal the whereabouts of her daughter . dr. morgan has just emerged from the d.c. jail after more than two years ' confinement for contempt of court , a heroine to her many supporters . to the rest of us , the case is a puzzle . it is what lawyers call `` fact intensive . '' it presents no great issue of legal principle , no overriding question of family law or the law of contempt . instead , it turns on the disputed and elusive facts of `` who did what to whom . '' it is difficult , if not impossible , for anyone who has not pored over the thousands of pages of court pleadings and transcripts to have a worthwhile opinion on the underlying merits of the controversy . certainly i do not . so we must look elsewhere for an explanation of the unusual power 0 this case has exerted over the minds of many , not just in washington but elsewhere in the country and even the world . i suggest that three themes have come together in the strange case of dr. morgan . the first is that it represents an intense battle in what james thurber used to caricature as `` the war between the sexes . '' but although thurber did so gently and lightheartedly , many of dr. morgan 's supporters have taken thurber 's memorable title `` the male animal '' quite literally . the vehemence of the emotions aroused by the case testifies to its symbolic importance in the war that thurber accepted as an eternal part of the human condition . a second theme is the undercurrent of social class and race in the public reaction to the morgan case . dr. morgan is a highly educated white professional who attended some of the `` best '' schools . as members of the black caucus in congress asked during the debate on the legislation that freed dr. morgan , does anyone seriously believe that if she were an uneducated , black , working-class woman , congress would have rushed to pass a private relief bill freeing her ? or that the president would have hurried to sign the bill `` out of compassion for her plight '' ? to ask those questions is to answer them . finally , the case of dr. morgan gave congress an opportunity to act with unaccustomed decisiveness and to engage in one of its favorite pastimes -- bashing the district of columbia government . the local government is discredited in the eyes of many residents for a variety of reasons , and congressmen read the same newspapers and watch the same tv newscasts as other people in the area do . bashing the d.c. government is risk-free for members of congress , who do not have to answer to their own constituents for it . congress is paralyzed from acting on such great issues of the day as the federal budget deficit . yet a bill tailored to the interests of a single individual passed congress with almost unimaginable speed , before the judicial process had run its course , and , indeed , while the morgan case was awaiting a ruling by the appellate court . the morgan case thus tells us much more about the current state of sex , class , race and politics in our society than it does about the facts of dr. morgan 's particular situation . it may stand as a metaphor for how wide and deep the divisions in that society continue to be however we try to deny their existence . mr. rezneck is a lawyer in washington , d.c .