gulf resources & chemical corp. said 0 it agreed to pay $ 1.5 million as part of an accord with the environmental protection agency regarding an environmental cleanup of a defunct smelter 0 the company formerly operated in idaho . in 1984 the epa notified gulf resources , which was a part-owner of the smelter , that it was potentially liable for sharing cleanup costs at the site under the federal superfund program . the 21-square-mile area is contaminated with lead , zinc and other metals . gulf resources earlier this year proposed a reorganization plan that would make it a unit of a bermuda concern , potentially exempting it from liability for the smelter 's cleanup costs . the company said that as part of its agreement with the epa , it `` made certain voluntary undertakings with respect to intercorporate transactions entered into after the reorganization . '' the company , which issued a statement on the agreement late friday , said that $ 1 million of the payment was previously provided for in its financial statements and that $ 500,000 will be recognized in its 1989 third-quarter statement . the agreement and consent decree are subject to court approval , the company said 0 . gulf resources added that it `` will seek to recover equitable contribution from others for both the amount of the settlement and any other liabilities 0 it may incur under the superfund law . '' under the agreement , gulf must give the u.s. government 45 days ' advance written notice before issuing any dividends on common stock . the company 's net worth can not fall below $ 185 million after the dividends are issued . `` the terms of that agreement only become effective the date of gulf 's reorganization , which we anticipate 0 will occur sometime in early 1990 , '' said lawrence r. mehl , gulf 's general counsel . in addition , gulf must give the government 20 days ' advance written notice of any loans exceeding $ 50 million that are made to the bermuda-based holding company . gulf 's net worth after those transaction must be at least $ 150 million . separately , the company said 0 it expects to hold a special meeting for shareholders in early 1990 to vote on its proposed reorganization .