is an american secretary of state seriously suggesting that the khmer rouge should help govern cambodia ? apparently so . there are no easy choices in cambodia , but we ca n't imagine that it benefits the u.s. to become the catalyst for an all-too-familiar process that could end in another round of horror in cambodia . now that vietnam appears to have pulled out its occupation army , the state department is talking again about accepting an `` interim '' coalition government in the cambodian capital of phnom penh . the coalition would include the current vietnamese-backed hun sen regime , the two non-communist resistance groups led by son sann and prince sihanouk , and the khmer rouge . the aim would be to end the guerrilla war for control of cambodia by allowing the khmer rouge a small share of power . the state department says that any khmer rouge participation would have to be `` minimal . '' the usual problem with including communists in `` interim '' coalition governments is that their ideology and methods require 0 they squeeze out everyone else . recall that nicaragua 's sandinistas came into managua as partners in a coalition government with anti-somoza moderates . within two years , the moderates were exiled or in prison , nicaragua had gone communist , and the sandinistas were building one of the biggest armies in latin america and threatening their neighbors . in laos , when the western powers bowed to pressure for such a coalition it turned out 0 they were opening the door to communist domination . even mao tse-tung 's china began in 1949 with a partnership between the communists and a number of smaller , non-communist parties . what complicates the scene in cambodia is that the current regime is already communist , as are its vietnamese overseers back in hanoi , as are the khmer rouge -- who are the strongest of the three guerrilla groups . it 's not clear which crew of communists might prevail in a coalition government , but the one good bet is that the non-communists would disappear . that would leave hun sen and the khmer rouge . the hun sen regime has sent thousands of conscript laborers to die of malaria and malnourishment while building cambodia 's equivalent of the berlin wall near the thai border . the khmer rouge , however , carry an unsurpassed record for cambodian tyranny . these utopians caused the deaths -- by starvation , disease or execution -- of well over one million cambodians . the cambodian horror was so bad that the vietnamese occupation in 1978 was a perverse form of relief . the world might want to believe that the khmer rouge ca n't still be such bad guys , just as in the late 1970s it was reluctant to credit the reports of genocide then taking place . but there is no solid evidence that the khmer rouge have changed . some of our sources in thailand say 0 the notorious old khmer rouge leader , pol pot , has been holed up this summer in khmer rouge camps near the thai-cambodian border . so it 's difficult to swallow the notion that mr. baker is willing to accept conditions that would help the khmer rouge set up shop again in phnom penh . true , prince sihanouk backs the idea of such a coalition , at least for this week . but prince sihanouk has backed all sorts of ideas over the years , and done rather better by himself than by cambodia . nor should the u.s. worry much about offending china , which still aids the khmer rouge . it 's time 0 the state department recognized that china does not play by gentlemen 's rules . for the u.s. to lend even the slightest support to the most infamous killers on indochina 's bleak scene could only disturb america 's allies elsewhere . it would be entirely rational for communist insurgents in countries such as the philippines or peru to conclude the following : fight viciously enough and the u.s. , under the banner of pragmatism , might eventually help negotiate your way to victory . u.s. diplomacy has done it before , and it will likely do it again . the administration and congress have lately tangoed around the idea of sending military aid to cambodia 's non-communists . but now the possibility of `` diplomatic movement '' -lrb- vietnam 's withdrawal , the baker initiative -rrb- has put that plan on hold , with the proviso that if the going got rough , the u.s. would then rearm the opposition . why the timidity ? at the very least , the odds are heavily weighted against the prospects of preventing the khmer rouge and cambodia 's communists from ultimately moving against their opponents . when that day comes , it would be particularly awful to know that the united states sat on military aid and deprived these people of the means 0 to settle their fate with at least a little honor .