the government moved aggressively to open the spigots of federal aid for victims of the california earthquake , but its reservoir of emergency funds must be replenished soon if the aid is to continue . president bush signed a disaster declaration covering seven northern california counties . the declaration immediately made the counties eligible for temporary housing , grants and low-cost loans 0 to cover uninsured property losses . in addition , an unusually wide array of federal agencies moved to provide specialized assistance . the department of housing and urban development prepared to make as many as 100 vacant houses available for those left homeless , the agriculture department was set to divert food from the school-lunch program to earthquake victims , and the pentagon was providing everything from radio communications to blood transfusions to military police for directing traffic . but the pool of federal emergency-relief funds already is running low because of the heavy costs of cleaning up hurricane hugo , and congress will be under pressure to allocate more money quickly . in hugo 's wake , congress allocated $ 1.1 billion in relief funds , and white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said 0 $ 273 million of that money remains and could be diverted for quick expenditures related to the earthquake . now , though , enormous costs for earthquake relief will pile on top of outstanding costs for hurricane relief . `` that obviously means that we wo n't have enough for all of the emergencies that are now facing us , and we will have to consider appropriate requests for follow-on funding , '' mr. fitzwater said . the federal government is n't even attempting yet to estimate how much the earthquake will cost it . but mr. fitzwater said , `` there will be , i think quite obviously 0 , a very large amount of money required from all levels of government . '' in congress , lawmakers already are looking for ways 0 to add relief funds . money could be added to a pending spending bill covering the federal emergency management agency , which coordinates federal disaster relief . more likely , relief funds could be added to an omnibus spending bill that congress is to begin considering next week . but it is n't just washington 's relief dollars that are spread thin ; its relief manpower also is stretched . fema still has special disaster centers open 0 to handle the aftermath of hugo , and spokesman russell clanahan acknowledged that `` we 're pretty thin . '' mr. clanahan says 0 fema now possibly may have the heaviest caseload in its history . to further complicate relief efforts , the privately funded american red cross also finds itself strapped for funds after its big hugo operation . `` it 's been a bad month money-wise and every other way , '' said sally stewart , a spokeswoman for the red cross . `` it just makes it a little rough when you have to worry about the budget . '' the red cross has opened 30 shelters in the bay area , serving 5,000 people . twenty-five trucks capable of cooking food were dispatched from other states . all the precise types of federal aid that will be sent to california wo n't be determined until state officials make specific requests to fema , agency officials said 0 . and in the confusion after the earthquake , `` the information flow is a little slow coming in from the affected area , '' said 0 carl suchocki , a fema spokesman . still , some aid is moving westward from washington almost immediately . hud officials said 0 they will make available as many as 100 bay area houses that are under hud loans but now are vacant after the houses have been inspected to ensure 0 they are sound . additional housing vouchers and certificates will be made available , officials said 0 , and some housing and community-development funds may be shifted from other programs or made available for emergency use . another federal agency not normally associated with disaster relief -- the internal revenue service -- moved quickly as well . the irs said 0 it will waive certain tax penalties for earthquake victims unable to meet return deadlines or make payments because of the quake 's devastation . the agency plans to announce specific relief procedures in the coming days . and the treasury said 0 residents of the san francisco area will be able to cash in savings bonds even if they have n't held them for the minimum six-month period . one advantage that federal officials have in handling earthquake relief is the large number of military facilities in the san francisco bay area , facilities that provide a ready base of supplies and workers . even before the full extent of the devastation was known , defense secretary dick cheney ordered the military services to set up an emergency command center in the pentagon and prepare to respond to various fema requests for assistance . by yesterday afternoon , air force transport planes began moving additional rescue and medical supplies , physicians , communications equipment and fema personnel to california . a military jet flew a congressional delegation and senior bush administration officials to survey the damage . and the pentagon said 0 dozens of additional crews and transport aircraft were on alert `` awaiting orders to move emergency supplies . '' two air force facilities near sacramento , and travis air force base , 50 miles northeast of san francisco , were designated to serve as medical-airlift centers . some victims also were treated at the letterman army medical center in san francisco and at the naval hospital in oakland . in addition , 20 military police from the presidio , a military base in san francisco , are assisting with traffic control , and a navy ship was moved from a naval station at treasure island near the bay bridge to san francisco to help fight fires . to help residents in northern california rebuild , fema intends to set up 17 disaster assistance offices in the earthquake area in the next several days and to staff them with 400 to 500 workers from various agencies , said 0 robert volland , chief of the agency 's individual assistance division . at these offices , earthquake victims will be helped in filling out a one-page form that they will need to qualify for such federal assistance as home-improvement loans and to repair houses . and federal officials are promising to move rapidly with federal highway aid to rebuild the area 's severely damaged road system . the federal highway administration has an emergency relief program 0 to help states and local governments repair federally funded highways and bridges seriously damaged by natural disasters . the account currently has $ 220 million . and though federal law dictates that only $ 100 million can be disbursed from that fund in any one state per disaster , administration officials expect congress to move in to authorize spending more now in california . to get that money , states must go through an elaborate approval process , but officials expect red tape to be cut this time . keith mulrooney , special assistant to federal highway administrator thomas larson , also said that after the 1971 san fernando earthquake in southern california , the state set tougher standards for bridges , and with federal aid , began a program 0 to retrofit highways and bridges for earthquake hazards . the first phase of the program has been completed , but two other phases are continuing . the two major structures that failed tuesday night , he said 0 , were both built well before the 1971 earthquake -- the san francisco bay bridge , completed in the 1930s , and the section of i-880 , built in the 1950s . the i-880 section had completed the first phase of the retrofitting . laurie mcginley contributed to this article .