when the going gets tough , it 's tough to trade stocks in continental europe . that 's the troubling conclusion reached by many international investors and money managers angry at the malfunctions on continental stock exchanges during last week 's global market turbulence . they say 0 the recent market volatility has underscored the shortcomings of the way 0 many european exchanges trade stocks . the weaknesses of continental exchanges are driving some fund managers to switch business to stocks traded on london 's stock exchange , which quotes firm trading prices for about 350 blue-chip issues from 12 major countries . `` i 'm not saying 0 london covered itself in glory , but the events of the past week have certainly exposed europe 's weaknesses , '' says stewart gilchrist , a director of scottish amicable investment managers in glasgow , scotland , which manages about # 6 billion -lrb- $ 9.63 billion -rrb- in institutional money . he says 0 the problems on european exchanges included market-system breakdowns , delayed execution of buy and sell orders and trading suspensions . `` the events strengthen london 's hand in becoming the center for trading european stocks , '' mr. gilchrist says . unable to unload a large block of a french blue-chip company 's shares in paris for two days last week , a frustrated scottish amicable fund manager finally tossed down her phone in disgust and called james capel & co. , a london brokerage firm . the firm did the trade in seconds on the london stock exchange 's seaq automated-quotation system . on so-called manic monday , oct. 16 , stock prices plunged across europe and trading problems erupted . london had some problems , too . the london exchange 's electronic price-reporting system provided only indicative , or non-firm , prices for about 40 minutes on manic monday . some dealers say 0 other traders were n't picking up their phones . but london 's problems were nothing compared with the continent 's . in brussels , which recently spent millions of dollars on a computer-assisted trading system , disgusted traders watched helplessly as a software failure before opening on manic monday prevented trading for two days . for 48 hours , no one had any idea precisely how much his securities were worth . by wednesday , frustrated belgian brokers reopened the market by using the time-honored method of quoting stocks with chalk on a blackboard . the belgian computer system finally was repaired and restarted on tuesday of this week , with the aid of toronto stock exchange officials who developed the system . in frankfurt , which only has a two-hour daily stock-trading session even in the best of times , stocks did n't open for the first 45 minutes because of order imbalances that brokers blame on a wave of sell orders from small investors . as banks processed six-foot telexes of sell orders , the crush led to manic monday 's worst decline : german stocks ended down 13 % . exchange officials extended trading hours , 75 minutes on monday and 65 minutes on tuesday , to clear up order backlogs . in france , more than half the top 25 blue-chip stocks -- including such giants as bsn and elf aquitaine -- did n't open until wall street rallied late in the european trading day , traders say 0 . the rally transformed some big sell orders into big buy orders , solving an order-imbalance problem . but by that time , many big institutions had switched business to london . `` belgium was closed for two days , france closed for a couple of hours , germany was stuck . it was a nightmare , '' says susan noble , an investment manager at robert fleming holdings ltd. 's international investment management unit in london . `` it 's very worrying that these markets ca n't cope . '' on manic monday , the volume of german shares traded in london more than tripled to 2.2 million , and the volume of french shares rose 48 % . -lrb- by comparison , german domestic stock volume in frankfurt only doubled that day . -rrb- the switch to the london market during such turbulent times is significant . for one thing , the size of the affected market is enormous -- the european stock markets account for some 22.5 % of global stock market capitalization , with an estimated value of $ 2.175 trillion , according to morgan stanley capital international . the continental markets alone contribute about 14.3 % of estimated world market capitalization of $ 9.671 trillion . though the widely traded shares that are quoted in london account for only a small portion of those totals , they still are the most closely watched stocks and are often viewed as a barometer for the local markets generally . the switch to london underscores the fact that despite the economic restructuring associated with european community efforts to develop a single market by 1992 , european stock trading remains a highly fragmented and very localized activity . against this backdrop , one thing that does n't seem likely to result from 1992 is a single european stock market . rather , there increasingly is a group of international brokerage and trading firms that operate in most european financial centers -- including european giants such as barclays bank plc and deutsche bank , as well as merrill lynch & co. and shearson lehman hutton inc. of the u.s. and japan 's nomura securities co . these firms , which often have acquired a local brokerage firm , are calling the shots when it comes to deciding in which market to transact a trade . and senior officials of two u.s. securities houses say 0 they switched trades in european stocks to the london market last week when they could n't unwind positions on the continent . meantime , brokers on the continent are worried , too , mostly by the potential loss of business . `` i would be much happier if this volume -lcb- in german stocks -rcb- were in frankfurt rather than london , '' says dieter bauernfeind , head of international equity sales at dresdner bank in frankfurt . he acknowledges that spreads `` were too wide and volumes too light '' in the extreme conditions on manic monday . already the germans appear to be acting ; at a special meeting on the day of the decline , directors of the frankfurt stock exchange voted to extend their trading hours , although they have n't decided when or by how much . a frankfurt exchange official , acknowledging the brokers ' anxieties , says 0 the market still feels 0 it `` functioned ok during this crash . '' the dutch , who had some trading problems because of insufficient computer capacity , say 0 new equipment 0 to solve the problems ought to be installed within a month . says a spokeswoman for the brussels bourse : `` nobody around here will tell you 0 they are happy 0 the system did n't work . but it 's just one of those things that happened . investors can be assured now that this kind of problem can never occur again . '' but for others , the pledges echo the promises made after the 1987 stock crash , when similar problems led many markets to develop the new systems that performed so badly last week . `` they all said 0 they invested huge amounts of money . but they either did n't buy the right machines or they wasted it , '' says fleming 's ms. noble .