times may be tough on wall street for some , but a few bosses are making as much as ever -- or more . at bear stearns cos. , for example , the 15 executive officers led by chairman alan `` ace '' greenberg got a pay increase to $ 35.9 million for the 14-month period ended june 30 from $ 22.9 million for the 12 months ended april 30 , 1988 . the figures do n't include substantial dividends on holdings of bear stearns stock . mr. greenberg himself was paid $ 4.5 million , before an estimated $ 1.5 million in dividends , up from $ 2.4 million the year before . the increase is noted in the brokerage firm 's latest proxy statement filed with the securities and exchange commission . because it operates on a fiscal year , bear stearns 's yearly filings are available much earlier than those of other firms . the latest period includes 14 months instead of 12 because bear stearns changed to a fiscal year ending in june instead of april . meanwhile , bear stearns 's 650 stock and bond salesmen saw thinner paychecks over the past year , which the company says 0 reflected lower commission revenue caused by a decline in investor activity in the markets . however , bear stearns on monday reported improved earnings for its first quarter , ended sept. 29 , partly because of a 31 % increase in commissions during the quarter . william j. montgoris , chief financial officer , defended the lofty salaries at bear stearns . `` all of us are on a base salary of $ 200,000 if the firm makes nothing -- and that 's pretty low as far as wall street goes , '' mr. montgoris said . however , bear stearns has never had an unprofitable year since its founding 65 years ago . four bear stearns executives besides the 62-year-old mr. greenberg were paid $ 3 million or more before dividends for the 14 months ended in june . according to the proxy statement , james e. cayne , 55 , bear stearns 's president , made $ 3.9 million ; an executive vice president , michael l. tarnopol , 53 , made nearly $ 3.4 million ; and two executive vice presidents , vincent j. mattone , 44 , and william j. michaelcheck , 42 , made about $ 3.3 million each . mr. montgoris said 0 the firm has a `` straight mathematical formula '' for determining compensation , based on the firm 's earnings . `` just because a particular element of the firm is down , '' such as stockbrokerage , `` does n't mean 0 the executive committee should be paid less , '' he said .