for retailers , christmas , not halloween , promises to be this year 's spookiest season . many retailers fear 0 a price war will erupt if cash-strapped companies such as campeau corp. slash tags to spur sales . concerns about the stock market , doubts about the economy in general and rising competition from catalog companies also haunt store operators . `` profits at christmas could be under attack for every retailer , '' asserts norman abramson , president and chief operating officer of clothestime inc. , an off-price chain . even if there is n't any widespread discounting , the outlook for industry profits is n't good . management horizons forecasts a 1.4 % profit decline for non-auto retailers this year , after annual drops that averaged 4.5 % in 1988 and 1987 . `` for the last two and a half years , retailing has been in a mild recession , '' says carl steidtmann , chief economist at the columbus , ohio , consulting firm . this year , many stores are entering the christmas season in turmoil : bonwit teller and b. altman parent l.j. hooker corp. is operating under chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy code ; b.a.t industries plc 's healthy saks fifth avenue and marshall field 's chains are on the auction block ; campeau 's bloomingdale 's is also on the block . industry observers expect a wide divergence in performance . stores in a state of confusion are likely to fare poorly , and to lose customers to stable chains such as limited inc. , may department stores co. and dillard department stores inc. , which should do well . `` there are going to be very clear winners and very clear losers , '' says cynthia turk , a touche ross & co. retail consultant . says mr. steidtmann : `` i 'm looking for a bi-polar christmas . '' economists expect general merchandise sales in the fourth quarter to rise 4.5 % to 6 % from year-ago figures . but mr. steidtmann predicts that healthy stores hawking mostly apparel could ring up gains of as much as 25 % to 30 % . troubled chains could see their sales drop as much as 8 % , he believes 0 , as managers distracted by fears about the future allow their stores to get sloppy . thin merchandise selections at the most troubled chains are also expected to hurt sales . catalog companies are likely to pose a bigger threat to all stores this year , particularly in december . more than 200 catalog outfits are promoting a low-cost federal express service that guarantees pre-christmas delivery of orders made by a certain date . `` traditionally , consumers were concerned about ordering after the first of december because they did n't believe 0 they would get it by christmas , '' says adam strum , chairman of the wine enthusiast inc. , which sells wine cellars and accessories through the mail . using federal express delivery last year , mr. strum says 0 , `` december was our biggest month . '' even sears , roebuck & co. is getting into the act , offering for the first time to have federal express deliver toys ordered by dec. 20 from its wish book catalog . k mart corp. chairman joseph e. antonini summed up his outlook for the christmas season as `` not troublesome . '' he 's not predicting a blockbuster , but he is `` more optimistic than three months ago '' because employment remains strong and inflation low . other retailers are also preparing for a ho-hum holiday . philip m. hawley , chairman of carter hawley hale stores inc. , expects sales at department stores open at least a year to rise a modest 3 % to 5 % over last year 's totals , both for his company and the industry in general . `` i 'm not looking for a runaway christmas at all , '' he says . `` it is n't a real boom holiday season in our eyes , '' says woolworth corp. chairman harold e. sells , `` but it is n't going to be a bust either . '' mr. sells expects fourth-quarter sales at his company -- which besides woolworth stores includes kinney and foot locker shoe stores and other specialty chains -- to rise `` pretty much in line '' with its year-to-date increases of between 8 % and 9 % . the estimate includes the results of new stores . a consumer poll conducted in early september by leo j. shapiro & associates , a market researcher based in chicago , also suggests a modest holiday . of the 450 survey respondents , 35 % said 0 they expect to spend less buying christmas gifts this year than last year , while 28 % said 0 they expect to spend more and 37 % said 0 their gift budget would stay the same . the results are almost identical to shapiro 's september 1988 numbers . retailers could get a boost this year from the calendar . christmas falls on a monday , creating a big last-minute weekend opportunity for stores . most will stay open late saturday night and open their doors again sunday . but many consumers probably will use the extra time to put off some purchasing until the last minute . `` what you 'll hear as we get into december is that sales are sluggish , '' predicts woolworth 's mr. sells . `` the week ending the 24th is going to save the entire month for everyone .