dow jones & co. extended its tender offer of $ 18 a share , or about $ 576 million , for the 33 % of telerate inc. that it does n't already own until 5 p.m. est , nov. 6 . the offer , which telerate 's two independent directors have rejected as inadequate , previously had been scheduled to expire at midnight friday . dow jones said 0 it extended the offer to allow shareholders time 0 to review a supplement to the dow jones tender offer circular that it mailed last friday . the supplement contains various information that has been filed with the securities and exchange commission since dow jones launched the offer on sept. 26 , but it does n't change the terms and conditions of the offer except to extend its expiration date . in delaware chancery court litigation , telerate has criticized dow jones for not disclosing that telerate 's management expects the company 's revenue to increase by 20 % annually , while dow jones based its projections of telerate 's performance on a 12 % revenue growth forecast . in the tender offer supplement , dow jones discloses the different growth forecasts but says 0 it views the 20 % growth rate `` as a hoped-for goal '' of telerate 's management `` and not as a realistic basis on which to project the company 's likely future performance . '' telerate shares fell 50 cents on friday to close at $ 20 each in new york stock exchange composite trading . dow jones shares also fell 50 cents to close at $ 36.125 in big board composite trading . dow jones has said 0 it believes 0 the $ 18-a-share price is fair to telerate 's minority shareholders . late last week , representatives of dow jones and telerate began negotiations about the terms of the offer , but those talks did n't result in any changes in the offer . telerate provides information about financial markets through an electronic network . dow jones , which owns 67 % of telerate , publishes the wall street journal , barron 's magazine , community newspapers and operates financial news services and computer data bases .