many small investors are facing a double whammy this year : they got hurt by investing in the highly risky junk bond market , and the pain is worse because they did it with borrowed money . these people invested in `` leveraged '' junk bond mutual funds , the publicly traded funds that make a habit of taking out loans to buy extra junk . it 's a good strategy in a rising market , where a 25 % leveraged portfolio in effect allows investors to have 125 % of their money working for them . the strategy boosts current yield by putting more bonds into the portfolio . trouble is , 0 junk bond prices have been weak for months . thus , the leverage has amplified the funds ' portfolio losses . and shares of leveraged junk funds this year have been clobbered even harder than the junk bonds 0 they hold . `` that 's really where the leverage hurt , '' says thomas herzfeld , a miami-based investment manager who specializes in closed-end funds . `` share prices performed even worse than the funds ' asset values because fear has taken hold '' in the junk market , he says 0 . leverage is never a problem for the traditional `` open end '' mutual funds , which are n't publicly traded and are n't allowed to use leverage at all . leverage is used only by some of the closed-end funds . the usual maneuver is to borrow against the portfolio value or issue preferred stock , using the proceeds to buy additional bonds . the fallout for investors lately has been painful . consider the new america high income fund . with a leveraged position of about 45 % , the fund 's share price has plunged 28.5 % so far this year . that 's worse than the price drop sustained by the bonds in its portfolio , whose total return -lrb- bond-price changes plus interest -rrb- has amounted to a negative 6.08 % . such problems may not be over . leveraged funds in particular `` are still extremely vulnerable , because we 're still at the beginning of problems in the junk market , '' says 0 george foot , a managing partner at newgate management associates in northampton , mass . many investors are unaware 0 their funds have borrowed to speculate in such a risky market . `` if someone actually sat down and thought about what they were being sold , '' says gerald perritt , editor of the mutual fund letter in chicago , they might shy away . in a typical leverage strategy , a fund tries to capture the spread between what it costs to borrow and the higher return on the bonds 0 it buys with the borrowed money . if the market surges , holders can make that much more profit ; the leverage effectively acts as an interest-free margin account for investors . but when the market moves against the fund , investors lose more than other junk holders because the market decline is magnified by the amount 0 the fund is leveraged . fund managers , for their part , defend their use of leverage . carl ericson , who runs the colonial intermediate high income fund , says 0 the fund 's 25 % leverage has jacked up its interest income . `` as long as i am borrowing at 9.9 % and each -lcb- bond -rcb- yields over that , it enhances the yield , '' he maintains . mr. ericson says 0 he tries to offset the leverage by diversifying the fund 's portfolio . yet some funds have pulled in their horns . new america high income fund recently said that it plans to reduce its leverage position by buying back $ 5 million in preferred stock and notes from investors . the fund made a similar move earlier this year . `` we are trying to increase our flexibility , '' says ellen e. terry , a vice president at ostrander capital management , the fund 's investment adviser . she declined to elaborate and would n't disclose the fund 's recent purchases , sales or cash position . ms. terry did say 0 the fund 's recent performance `` illustrates what happens in a leveraged product '' when the market does n't cooperate . `` when the market turns around , '' she says 0 , `` it will give a nice picture '' of how leverage can help performance . several leveraged funds do n't want to cut the amount 0 they borrow because it would slash the income 0 they pay shareholders , fund officials said 0 . but a few funds have taken other defensive steps . some have raised their cash positions to record levels . high cash positions help buffer a fund when the market falls . prospect street high income portfolio , for instance , now holds about 15 % in cash and equivalents , nearly quintuple the amount 0 it held earlier this year , says 0 john frabotta , portfolio co-manager . he says 0 the fund , which is 40 % leveraged , has maintained a `` substantial cushion '' between its borrowing costs and the yields of the portfolio 's bonds . `` i do n't want to be in a position 0 to have to sell , '' mr. frabotta says . other funds have recently sold weak junk bonds to raise cash . at the 50%-leveraged zenith income fund , portfolio manager john bianchi recently dumped mesa petroleum , wickes and horsehead industries , among others , to raise his cash position to a record 15 % . `` that 's a problem because cash is n't earning us very much money , '' mr. bianchi says . he concedes : `` this is the most difficult market that i 've been involved in . '' because of the recent junk-market turmoil , the fund is considering investing in other issues instead , including mortgage-backed bonds . `` we 're looking at the leverage factor every day , '' says robert moore , president of bernstein-macaulay inc. , a shearson lehman hutton inc. unit and the fund 's adviser . `` at some point , if we are unable to cover our leveraged cost -- and at the moment we 're right on it -- we 're going to have to make a move .