-lrb- during its centennial year , the wall street journal will report events of the past century that stand as milestones of american business history . -rrb- franklin national bank died at 3 p.m. edt , oct. 8 , 1974 , and was promptly resurrected under new owners to shore up confidence in other banks during a recession . arthur burns , federal reserve board chairman , said 0 the government 's `` luck '' in keeping the bank open -- despite being the then-biggest u.s. bank failure -- prevented `` shock waves around the country and around the world . '' federal officials who had been probing the bank for months arranged a merger with european-american bank & trust , owned by six foreign banks , 0 to avert the closedown . and federal insurance protected the bank 's 631,163 depositors . the crisis had peaked on may 10 , 1974 , when the bank disclosed `` severe '' foreign-exchange losses due to `` unauthorized '' trading . massive withdrawals followed and there was a brief rescue attempt , with political undertones , including $ 1.77 billion in federal reserve loans . within six years many figures were convicted for their illegal abuse of franklin funds . in june 1980 , michele sindona -- an italian financier who in july 1972 had bought a 22 % block of franklin 's stock from loews corp. , headed by laurence a. tisch -- was sentenced to 25 years in prison after being convicted of fraud and perjury . included was the charge that sindona siphoned $ 45 million of franklin funds for his other ventures . -lrb- sindona in 1979 faked his `` kidnapping '' for 2 1\/2 months to delay his trial . -rrb- during 1976 to 1979 , other former franklin officials either pleaded guilty to or were found guilty of violations including phony transactions 0 to hide the bank 's losses . sindona , the onetime vatican financial adviser with reported links to the mafia , died on march 22 , 1986 , at age 65 , reportedly after drinking cyanide-laced coffee in an italian prison . it happened four days after he was sentenced to life in prison for ordering a 1979 murder . italian magistrates labeled his death a suicide .