everything looked good as neurosurgeon walter levy and colleagues carefully cut away a woman 's spinal tumor at the cleveland clinic in 1978 . using small electrical shocks applied to her feet , they were able to monitor sensory nerves . the shocks generated nerve impulses that traveled via spine to brain and showed up clearly on a brain-wave monitor , indicating no damage to the delicate spinal tissue . then , says dr. levy , `` she woke up paralyzed . '' the damage was to her motor nerves , which could n't be monitored along with the sensory nerves , he explains 0 . the tragedy , he adds 0 , `` galvanized me '' to look for a way 0 to prevent similar cases . dr. levy 's answer may come with a new kind of magnetic brain probe , a device that he and dozens of u.s. researchers are studying with great hope . besides holding the promise of safer spinal surgery , the probe could improve the diagnosis of brain and nerve disorders such as strokes and multiple sclerosis . perhaps most exciting , the device is thrusting open a window to the workings of the brain . the probe , which is painless , non-invasive and apparently harmless , employs strong magnetic fields to induce small whirlwinds of electricity within the brain . if positioned over the brain 's motor-control area , the hand-held electromagnets generate nerve impulses that zip down motor nerves and activate muscles , making , say , a finger twitch . in principle , they will enable doctors to check the body 's motor system the way 0 an electrician tests a home 's electrical circuits by running current through them . `` until now , we 've had no objective way of measuring motor function , '' says keith chiappa , a neurologist conducting clinical tests with the devices at boston 's massachusetts general hospital . `` all 0 we could do was tell a patient , ` squeeze my fingers as hard as you can ' or ` raise your arm . ' `` under the best circumstances such tests are subjective ; when a patient is unconscious , they do n't work at all . magnetic brain tweaking started in the early 1900s , when researchers produced flashes of light in the visual field with magnets . in the 1960s , mayo clinic researchers developed magnetic devices 0 to stimulate motor nerves in the hand and other limbs . but for brain tests , the unwieldy machines `` would have required patients to stand on their heads , '' says 0 reginald bickford , a researcher at the university of california at san diego . the field took off in 1985 after scientists at britain 's sheffield university developed a handy , compact magnet for brain stimulation . since then , at least two commercial versions have been put on the u.s. market , and an estimated 500 have been sold . in august , a chicago conference on such devices attracted more than 100 researchers , who reported studies on everything from brain mapping to physical therapy . `` we do n't feel 0 we can use -lcb- the devices -rcb- routinely in surgery yet , but we 're getting close , '' says dr. levy , who is now with the university of pittsburgh . a problem , he adds 0 , is that anesthetized brains are more resistant to magnetic stimulation than awake ones . the devices could help indicate when surgery would help , says 0 charles tator , a university of toronto neurosurgeon . for example , paralyzed car-crash victims occasionally have some intact spinal tissues that , if preserved by emergency surgery , enable partial recovery . but such operations typically are n't performed because there is no sign right after an injury that surgery would be beneficial . `` the cost -lcb- of magnetic stimulators -rcb- would seem like peanuts if we could retrieve limb function '' in such people , dr. tator says 0 . scientists caution 0 there is a chance 0 the magnet technique might spark seizures in epileptics . but no significant problems have been reported among hundreds of people tested with the devices . the main sensation , besides feeling like a puppet jerked with invisible strings , is `` like a rap on the head , '' says 0 sam bridgers , a neurologist who has studied the brain stimulators at yale university . one apparent side effect is a minor increase in a brain hormone . and some doctors who have conducted hours of tests on themselves report temporary headaches . at least two companies , cadwell laboratories inc. of kennewick , wash. , and novametrix medical systems inc. of wallingford , conn. , now sell versions of the magnetic devices . the machines , which at $ 12,500 are inexpensive by medical standards , have n't been approved in the u.s. for marketing as brain stimulators but are sold for stimulating nerves in the hand , legs and other non-brain areas . researchers can apply for permission to use the probes for brain studies . at the university of kentucky , a team led by dean currier , a physical therapy researcher , is testing the stimulators in conjunction with electric shocks to induce muscle contractions to help prevent wasting of thigh muscles after knee surgery . similarly , a purdue university team led by heart researcher w.a. tacker hopes to develop ways 0 to magnetically induce cardiac muscle contractions . the devices might someday serve as temporary pacemakers or restarters for stopped hearts , says 0 dr. tacker , whose prototype was dubbed the `` tacker whacker . '' the devices ' most remarkable possibilities , though , involve the brain . probing with the stimulators , national institutes of health scientists recently showed how the brain reorganizes motor-control resources after an amputation . similar studies are expected to reveal how stroke patients ' brains regroup -- a first step toward finding ways 0 to bolster that process and speed rehabilitation . scientists also are exploring memory and perception with the new machines . at the state university of new york at brooklyn , researchers flash two groups of different letters on a computer screen in front of human guinea pigs . between flashes , certain areas in subjects ' brains are jolted with a magnetic stimulator . when the jolt is timed just right , the subjects do n't recall seeing the first group of letters . `` where does that first stimulus go ? '' exclaims suny neurologist paul maccabee . `` trying to answer that is suggesting all kinds of theories , '' such as precisely where and how the brain processes incoming signals from the eyes . he and others say that the machines are weak enough that they do n't jeopardize the memory . both the suny team and researchers at the national magnet laboratory in cambridge , mass. , are working with more potent magnetic brain stimulators . among other things , the stronger devices may be able to summon forth half-forgotten memories and induce mood changes , neurologists say 0 .