regarding your oct. 4 page-one article `` bad blood '' on the generic-drug battle : the epilepsy institute is not just a patient-advocacy organization . it is primarily a certified outpatient treatment facility providing comprehensive services to people with epilepsy and their families . the institute 's advocacy efforts are based on the needs of the population 0 it serves and represents . in 1985 , the medical tribune reported that a growing number of critics are challenging the fda bioequivalence-therapeutic-equivalence equation . `` they contend 0 it is based on an assumption that has not yet been proven in valid tests , '' the tribune said . in 1986 , some institute patients were reporting breakthrough seizures when they were switched from a specific brand-name medication to a generic one or from one generic manufacturer of a specific product to another . in addition , neurologists were beginning to report these observations as well . call it anecdotal if you will . but no ethical physician would switch patients who were doing well on a specific medication from a specific manufacturer to prove a point . we do not depend on pharmaceutical companies for our support . the institute has governmental service contracts for the provision of direct patient services ; collects patient fees ; receives money through contributions from individuals , foundations and bequests . the funds received from pharmaceutical firms are used to offset physician symposiums , and these symposiums do not stress any particular medication or manufacturer . the epilepsy institute 's reporting of breakthrough seizures stemmed from concerns about the people 0 we treat and care about daily . this perhaps was perceived as a `` bold '' stance , and thus suspicious . but let us not confuse profits of big business masquerading as concerns for people 's health care or for the cost . for whom is the saving ? surely not to people with epilepsy who depend on the same levels of medication in their bloodstream daily to maintain seizure control . reina berner executive director arnold m. katz