a major tokyo newspaper reported that a japanese department store concern is planning to offer about $ 1.3 billion to buy bloomingdale 's . campeau corp. , the chain 's owner , declined to comment on the report . a spokeswoman said 0 toronto-based campeau has received `` expressions of interest '' in bloomingdale 's , but she declined to comment on whether any actual bids had been made . nihon keizai shimbun , japan 's leading economic newspaper , reported wednesday that tokyu department store co. is planning to team up with u.s. and western european financing to buy the new york-based retail chain , which campeau has put up for sale . the service did n't identify its tokyu sources . `` this is the first of many rumors 0 we expect to hear during the sale 's process , '' said a bloomingdale 's spokesman . `` we wo n't comment on them . '' tokyu executives were n't available for comment early thursday morning in tokyo . campeau 's chairman , robert campeau , said at its annual meeting in july that he valued bloomingdale 's at $ 2 billion . among previously disclosed possible bidders is bloomingdale 's chairman marvin traub , who has aligned himself with drexel burnham lambert inc. and blackstone group . investment bankers in tokyo confirmed that tokyu department store is one of several japanese companies that has been approached by representatives of a management committee headed by bloomingdale 's mr. traub . but they said 0 detailed financial figures have n't been passed yet to any prospective buyers . `` nobody is going to make a real bid before the middle of november , '' said one investment banker familiar with the discussions in japan . `` tokyu is one of the potential buyers who might raise its hand . but it 's in very early stages still . '' bloomingdale 's is a 17-store chain acquired last year by campeau in its $ 6.6 billion acquisition of federated . bloomingdale 's does an estimated $ 1.2 billion in annual sales . the sale of bloomingdale 's is a condition of efforts by toronto-based olympia & york developments ltd. to arrange $ 800 million in bridge financing for campeau , which disclosed last month that its retailing units , federated department stores inc. and allied stores corp. , were strapped for cash . o&y , owned by toronto 's reichmann family , is also supervising major restructuring and refinancing of campeau , a toronto-based real estate and retailing company . one executive familiar with the bloomingdale 's situation said , `` no book has been issued regarding bloomingdale 's , there are no projections , so i doubt very much whether any bid has been made . '' separately , a campeau shareholder filed suit , charging campeau , chairman robert campeau and other officers with violating securities law . the suit , filed in u.s. district court in manhattan , seeks class-action status . the suit accuses the retailer and several of its officers of making false and misleading statements about the company 's business affairs . the suit says 0 the company failed to disclose material adverse information about its financial condition . a spokesman for the company said 0 campeau has n't seen the suit and declined to comment .