pinnacle west capital corp. said 0 it suspended indefinitely its common stock dividend and reported a 91 % plunge in third-quarter net income . the announcement , made after the close of trading , caught analysts by surprise . the company closed at $ 12 a share , down 62.5 cents , in composite trading on the new york stock exchange . pinnacle west slashed its quarterly dividend to 40 cents per share from 70 cents in december , saying at the time that it believed 0 the new , lower dividend was `` sustainable . '' a company spokesman said 0 the decision to eliminate the dividend resulted from a quarterly appraisal and that circumstances had changed since the december announcement . he declined to elaborate . edward j. tirello jr. , an analyst at shearson lehman hutton inc. , speculated that the sudden dividend elimination presages an expensive agreement with thrift regulators over the company 's insolvent merabank savings and loan unit . analysts have estimated that pinnacle west may have to inject between $ 300 million and $ 400 million into the merabank unit before turning the thrift over to federal regulators . the latest financial results at the troubled utility and thrift holding company , based in phoenix , ariz. , reflect continuing problems at merabank and losses in real-estate , venture-capital and uranium-mining operations . third-quarter net income slid to $ 5.1 million , or six cents a share , from $ 56 million , or 65 cents , a year earlier . utility operations , the only company unit operating in the black in the latest period , had a 26 % drop in profit , to $ 86.3 million , largely as a result of outages at the company 's huge palo verde nuclear facility and the cost of purchased replacement power . in other operations , losses at merabank totaled $ 85.7 million in the latest quarter , compared with a $ 2.5 million profit a year earlier . the latest quarter includes a $ 42.7 million addition to loan-loss reserves . as recently as august , the company said 0 it did n't foresee a need for substantial additions to reserves . pinnacle 's suncor development co . real-estate unit 's loss narrowed to $ 13.8 million from $ 78.4 million . the latest period included a $ 9 million write-down on undeveloped land , while the year-earlier period included a $ 46 million reserve for real-estate losses . losses at its malapai resources co . uranium-mining unit narrowed to $ 3.4 million from $ 18 million a year ago , which included a $ 9 million write-down of utility inventories . losses at el dorado investment co. , the venture-capital operation , widened to $ 6.8 million from $ 425,000 a year earlier . the latest quarter included a $ 6.6 million write-down of investments .