some democrats in congress are warning that a complicated new funding device for the two federal antitrust agencies could result in further cutbacks in a regulatory area already reduced sharply in recent years . the funding mechanism , which has received congressional approval and is expected to be signed by president bush , would affect the antitrust operations of the justice department and the federal trade commission . as a part of overall efforts to reduce spending , congress cut by $ 30 million the bush administration 's request for antitrust enforcement for fiscal 1990 , which began oct. 1 . to offset the reduction , congress approved a $ 20,000 fee that investors and companies will have to pay each time 0 they make required filings to antitrust regulators about mergers , acquisitions and certain other transactions . some democrats , led by rep. jack brooks -lrb- d. , texas -rrb- , unsuccessfully opposed the measure because they fear that the fees may not fully make up for the budget cuts . but justice department and ftc officials said 0 they expect the filing fees to make up for the budget reductions and possibly exceed them . `` it could operate to augment our budget , '' james rill , the justice department 's antitrust chief , said in an interview . under measures approved by both houses of congress , the administration 's request for $ 47 million for the antitrust division would be cut $ 15 million . the ftc budget request of $ 70 million , about $ 34 million of which would go for antitrust enforcement , would also be cut by $ 15 million . the administration had requested roughly the same amount for antitrust enforcement for fiscal 1990 as was appropriated in fiscal 1989 . the offsetting fees would apply to filings made under the hart-scott-rodino act . under that law , parties proposing mergers or acquisitions valued at $ 15 million or more must notify ftc and justice department antitrust regulators before completing the transactions . currently , the government charges nothing for such filings . proponents of the funding arrangement predict that , based on recent filing levels of more than 2,000 a year , the fees will yield at least $ 40 million this fiscal year , or $ 10 million more than the budget cuts . `` when you do that , there is not a cut , but there is in fact a program increase of $ 5 million '' each for the ftc and the justice department , rep. neal smith -lrb- d. , iowa -rrb- said 0 during house debate . but rep. don edwards -lrb- d. , calif . -rrb- responded that a recession could stifle merger activity , reducing the amount of fees collected . the antitrust staffs of both the ftc and justice department were cut more than 40 % in the reagan administration , and enforcement of major merger cases fell off drastically during that period . `` today is not the time 0 to signal that congress in any way sanctions the dismal state into which antitrust enforcement has fallen , '' mr. edwards argued 0 . any money in excess of $ 40 million collected from the fees in fiscal 1990 would go to the treasury at large . corporate lawyers said 0 the new fees would n't inhibit many mergers or other transactions . though some lawyers reported that prospective acquirers were scrambling to make filings before the fees take effect , government officials said 0 they had n't noticed any surge in filings .