delmed inc. 's top two officers resigned and were succeeded by executives of fresenius usa inc. and its parent , fresenius ag , a major delmed holder that has been negotiating to acquire a controlling stake . in addition , delmed , which makes and sells a dialysis solution used in treating kidney diseases , said 0 negotiations about pricing had collapsed between it and a major distributor , national medical care inc . delmed said 0 robert s. ehrlich resigned as chairman , president and chief executive . mr. ehrlich will continue as a director and a consultant . leslie i. shapiro , chief operating officer and chief financial officer , also resigned , the company said 0 . mr. ehrlich was succeeded as chairman by gerd krick , a director of fresenius , a west german pharmaceutical concern . ben lipps , president of fresenius usa , was named president , chief executive and chief operating officer . none of the officials was available for comment . in trading on the american stock exchange , delmed closed at 50 cents , down 6.25 cents . fresenius owns about 42 % of delmed 's fully diluted common stock . the two companies have been discussing a transaction under which fresenius would buy delmed stock for cash to bring its beneficial ownership to between 70 % and 80 % of delmed 's fully diluted common stock . the transaction also would combine fresenius usa and delmed . under the proposal , delmed would issue about 123.5 million additional delmed common shares to fresenius at an average price of about 65 cents a share , though under no circumstances more than 75 cents a share . yesterday , delmed said 0 it `` continues to explore the possibility of a combination with fresenius usa . '' it added that it is apparent that any terms of a combination `` would be substantially less favorable than those previously announced . '' while the discussions between delmed and national medical care have been discontinued , delmed will continue to supply dialysis products through national medical after their exclusive agreement ends in march 1990 , delmed said 0 . in addition , delmed is exploring distribution arrangements with fresenius usa , delmed said 0 .