the collapse of a $ 6.79 billion buy-out of united airlines parent ual corp. has handed wall street 's takeover stock speculators their worst loss ever on a single deal . their $ 700 million-plus in estimated paper losses easily tops the $ 400 million in paper losses 0 the takeover traders , known as arbitragers , suffered in 1982 when gulf oil co. dropped a $ 4.8 billion offer for cities service co . in the six trading days since the ual labor-management buy-out group failed to get bank financing , culminating friday with the withdrawal of its partner british airways plc , ual stock has plummeted by 41 % to 168 1\/2 from 285 1\/4 . the arbs may recoup some of their paper losses if the ual deal gets patched up again , as they did in 1982 when occidental petroleum co. rescued them with a $ 4 billion takeover of cities service . in the meantime , the question faced by investors is : what is ual stock worth ? the short answer , on a fundamental basis , is that airline analysts say 0 the stock is worth somewhere between $ 135 and $ 150 a share . that 's based on a multiple of anywhere between 8.5 to 10 times ual earnings , which are estimated to come in somewhere around $ 16 a share this year . airline stocks typically sell at a discount of about one-third to the stock market 's price-earnings ratio -- which is currently about 13 times earnings . that 's because airline earnings , like those of auto makers , have been subject to the cyclical ups-and-downs of the economy . that analysis matches up with stock traders ' reports that , despite the huge drop in the stock , ual has n't returned to the level at which it could attract buying by institutions solely on the basis of earnings . so anyone buying the stock now is betting on some special transaction such as a recapitalization or takeover , and must do so using some guesswork about the likelihood of such an event . one analyst , who asked not to be identified , said 0 he believes that the ual pilots and management can put together a bid `` in the $ 225 area , '' but that it could take three to four months to close . at that level , and given the uncertainty , he believes 0 ual stock should trade closer to other observers note that ual 's board , having accepted a bid of $ 300 a share , might hold out for a new bid much closer to the original level -- even if it means that the management goes back to running the company for a while and lets things return to normal . by that logic , the closing of a deal could be much further away than three to four months , even though the eventual price might be higher . investment bankers following ual agree that the strongest impetus for an eventual deal is that the pilots have been attempting a buy-out for more than two years , and are n't likely to stop , having come so close to success . the pilots have a strong financing tool in their willingness to cut their annual compensation by $ 200 million , and to commit $ 200 million from their retirement funds . on friday , they also persuaded the ual flight attendants to join them . however , investment bankers say that banks are n't likely to lend the almost $ 5 billion that would be necessary for a takeover even at a lower price without someone putting up a hefty wad of cash -- probably even greater than the 17 % in cash put up by investors in the leveraged takeover of northwest airlines parent nwa corp. in july . banks want to see someone putting up real cash at risk , that is , subordinate to the bank debt in any deal . that way , they figure 0 , someone else has an even stronger motivation 0 to make sure 0 the deal is going to work , because they would be losing their money before the banks lost theirs . banks also want to be able to call someone 0 on the telephone to fix a problem with a deal that goes bad -- preferably someone other than a union leader . that leaves the pilots still in need of cash totaling around $ 1 billion -- far more than either they or the flight attendants can lay their hands on from retirement funds alone . one obstacle to the pilots ' finding such a huge amount of cash is their insistence on majority ownership . investors such as marvin davis of los angeles who have sought airline ownership this year have insisted 0 they , not the pilots , must have control . one way out of that dilemma could be a partial recapitalization in which the pilots would wind up sharing the value of their concessions with public shareholders . the pilots could borrow against the value of their concessions , using the proceeds to buy back stock from the public and give themselves the majority control 0 they have been seeking . but it is n't clear that banks would lend sufficient money to deliver a big enough price to shareholders . the lack of any new cash probably would still leave the banks dissatisfied . in advising the ual board on the various bids for the airline , starting with one for $ 240 a share from mr. davis , the investment bank of first boston came up with a wide range of potential values for the company , depending on appraisal methods and assumptions . using the the nwa takeover as a benchmark , first boston on sept. 14 estimated that ual was worth $ 250 to $ 344 a share based on ual 's results for the 12 months ending last june 30 , but only $ 235 to $ 266 based on a management estimate of results for 1989 . first boston 's estimates had been higher before management supplied a 1989 projection . using estimates of the company 's future earnings under a variety of scenarios , first boston estimated ual 's value at $ 248 to $ 287 a share if its future labor costs conform to wall street projections ; $ 237 to $ 275 if the company reaches a settlement with pilots similar to one at nwa ; $ 98 to $ 121 under an adverse labor settlement , and $ 229 to $ 270 under a pilot contract imposed by the company following a strike . and using liquidation value assuming the sale of all ual assets , first boston estimated 0 the airline is worth $ 253 to $ 303 a share . unfortunately , all those estimates came before airline industry fundamentals deteriorated during the past month . american airlines parent amr and usair group , both subject to takeover efforts themselves , have each warned of declining results . some analysts do n't expect a quick revival of any takeover by the pilots . the deal has , as one takeover expert puts it , `` so many moving parts . i do n't see anybody who 's sophisticated getting his name associated with this mess until the moving parts stop moving . '' in addition to the need for another cash equity investor , the other moving parts include : the pilots themselves , who can scuttle rival deals by threatening to strike ; the machinists union , the pilots ' longtime rivals who helped scuttle the pilots ' deal ; and regulators in washington , whose opposition to foreign airline investment helped throw the deal into doubt . in the meantime , the arbs are bleeding . wall street traders and analysts estimate that takeover stock traders own ual stock and options equal to as many as 6.5 million shares , or about 30 % of the total outstanding . frank gallagher , an analyst with phoenix capital corp. in new york , estimates that the arbs paid an average of about $ 280 a share for their ual positions . that would indicate that the arbs have paper losses on ual alone totalling $ 725 million . ual corp . -lrb- nyse ; symbol : ual -rrb- business : airline year ended dec. 31 , 1988 : sales : $ 8.98 billion net income \* : $ 599.9 million ; or $ 20.20 a share second quarter , june 30 , 1989 : per-share earnings : $ 6.52 vs. $ 5.77 average daily trading volume : 881,969 shares common shares outstanding : 21.6 million