the new york stock exchange is expected to launch its own program trading vehicle today , just as controversy over this trading strategy heats up . the big board this morning plans to begin trading its exchange stock portfolio `` basket '' product , the first program-trading vehicle carrying the exchange 's seal of approval . esps will allow institutional investors to buy or sell all 500 stocks in standard & poor 's index in a single trade of a minimum of $ 5 million . `` customized '' baskets of fewer stocks will also be available . the securities and exchange commission gave provisional six-month approval to the big board basket at a meeting late yesterday . the sec at the same time approved a similar but smaller basket product on the chicago board options exchange , where the minimum will be $ 1.7 million . also approved was a plan to trade stock portfolios by computer after regular hours on the midwest stock exchange . the basket products are `` an evolutionary step '' in solving problems in trading big blocks of stock that came to light in the 1987 market crash , said 0 sec commissioner joseph grundfest . new sec chairman richard breeden , overseeing his first public meeting , said 0 there have been concerns that the big board 's basket could attract investors with a `` short-term perspective '' who would rapidly turn over the product , thus increasing volatility . but richard ketchum , the sec 's market regulation chief , said 0 he did n't believe 0 `` this will spawn dramatic new program-trading strategies that will be destabilizing . '' the baskets on the big board and cboe -- which involve the actual s&p stocks , unlike the stock-index contracts currently traded on the chicago futures markets , and index options on the cboe -- will begin trading as critics step up their attacks on program trading and its contributions to the stock market 's wild price swings . the big board argues that its new product will help rather than hurt the situation by possibly drawing business from more-volatile forms of program trading . esps are also an attempt by the big board to head off the exodus of program trading business to overseas markets such as london . big board officials also hope 0 japanese investors will become interested in the exchange 's product . already , many of the big board 's own floor traders are warning that the esp baskets are risky and not in the best interests of the investing public . the 400-member alliance of floor brokers said 0 the new product , with the $ 5 million minimum , will benefit only big institutional investors and could lead to `` wild spasms of volatility . '' stockbrokers who cater to individual investors said 0 the big board 's new product confirms 0 the exchange does n't want to curtail program trading , which last month accounted for a record 13.8 % of the exchange 's average daily volume . `` the new york stock exchange is losing its cool here , '' said james andrews , head of institutional trading at janney montgomery scott inc. in philadelphia . the new stock baskets `` are going to make it easier for program trading to be done . and it 's going to be done more frequently as the result of having more access to it at different places . '' both the big board 's exchange stock portfolio and the chicago exchange 's market basket are designed for institutional investors . the big board lists its targets as pension plans , mutual fund managers and index-arbitrage traders . in index arbitrage , program traders buy and sell stocks and stock-index futures to profit from small price discrepancies between the markets . at the same time , only four securities firms have signed up with the big board to buy and sell esps as market makers , an unenthusiastic response . the market makers so far are cs first boston group 's first boston corp. unit , morgan stanley & co. , painewebber group inc. and salomon inc. 's salomon brothers inc. unit . kidder , peabody & co. , a general electric co. unit that has become the biggest program trader along with morgan stanley , is n't a market maker , although the big board hopes 0 that will change . similarly , the big board hopes to entice merrill lynch & co . neither has plans to be a market maker for now . traders said 0 major securities firms are reluctant to become market makers because they fear 0 the baskets may attract only limited trading . big board officials say 0 only 25 contracts a day may trade at first , equivalent to a day 's action at a small , regional exchange . even though the big board says 0 its product represents a post-crash `` reform , '' some traders suggest that if the new basket had been trading during this month 's friday the 13th market plunge , the dow jones industrial average might have dropped more than the 190 points 0 it did . with the futures locked into a trading halt oct. 13 and trading in some individual stock difficult , program traders would have undoubtedly fled to the basket system , the traders say 0 . `` if we had the baskets , we would be leaving in caskets , '' one trader said . the sec 's mr. breeden said 0 the after-hours trading on the midwest exchange would help the u.s. win back business that has moved overseas to conduct after-hours trades .