institut merieux s.a. of france said 0 the canadian government raised an obstacle to its proposed acquisition of connaught biosciences inc. for 942 million canadian dollars -lrb- us$ 801.6 million -rrb- . merieux said 0 the government 's minister of industry , science and technology told it that he was n't convinced that the purchase is likely to be of `` net benefit '' to canada . canadian investment rules require that big foreign takeovers meet that standard . the french company said 0 the government gave it 30 days in which to submit information 0 to further support its takeover plan . both merieux and connaught are biotechnology research and vaccine manufacturing concerns . the government 's action was unusual . alan nymark , executive vice president of investment canada , which oversees foreign takeovers , said 0 it marked the first time in its four-year history that the agency has made an adverse net-benefit decision about the acquisition of a publicly traded company . he said 0 it has reached the same conclusions about some attempts to buy closely held concerns , but eventually allowed those acquisitions to proceed . `` this is n't a change in government policy ; this provision has been used before , '' said jodi redmond , press secretary for harvie andre , canada 's minister of industry , science and technology . mr. andre issued the ruling based on a recommendation by investment canada . spokesmen for merieux and connaught said 0 they had n't been informed of specific areas of concern by either the government or investment canada , but added 0 they hope to have more information early this week . investment canada declined to comment on the reasons for the government decision . viren mehta , a partner with mehta & isaly , a new york-based pharmaceutical industry research firm , said 0 the government 's ruling was n't unexpected . `` this has become a very politicized deal , concerning canada 's only large , world-class bio-research or pharmaceutical company , '' mr. mehta said . mr. mehta said 0 the move that could allow the transaction to go ahead as planned could be an out-of-court settlement of connaught 's dispute with the university of toronto . the university is seeking to block the acquisition of connaught by foreign interests , citing concerns about the amount of research that would be done in canada . the university is considering a settlement proposal made by connaught . while neither side will disclose its contents , mr. mehta expects it to contain more specific guarantees on research and development spending levels in canada than merieux offered to investment canada . some analysts , such as murray grossner of toronto-based richardson greenshields inc. , believe 0 the government ruling leaves the door open for other bidders , such as switzerland 's ciba-geigy and chiron corp. of emeryville , calif . officials for the two concerns , which are bidding c$ 30 a share for connaught , could n't be reached for comment . french state-owned rhone-poulenc s.a. holds 51 % of merieux .