tokyo share prices rebounded tuesday morning , with the nikkei index of 225 selected stocks rising 618.69 points to close the morning session at 35087.38 . the index slid 647.33 points , or 1.8 % , on monday . in the first 25 minutes of tuesday 's trading the nikkei index soared 664.83 points , to 35133.83 . by 10 a.m. tokyo time , the index was up 435.11 points , to 34903.80 as investors hailed new york 's overnight rally . monday 's slide came in a relatively calm session that did n't provide much direction for other markets . shares also closed sharply lower across europe , particularly in frankfurt , although london and a few other markets recovered some ground after stocks began to rebound in new york . other asian and pacific markets had sharper losses than tokyo , but the selling wave stopped short of precipitating another market crash . all eyes were on tokyo at the opening because it was the first major market 0 to trade since friday 's 190.58-point plunge on wall street . but rather than set the tone for other markets , japan 's major institutional investors chose to remain on the sidelines . still , despite the sudden reappearance of stock-market turbulence , managers of japanese investment funds said 0 they were n't planning to unload u.s. or european equities . `` we did n't trade much today , as our policy now is to wait and see , '' said a fund manager at taisho life insurance co . `` we would like to wait and see until trading goes around through europe and new york . '' the institutions appeared confident that japanese regulators would step in to ensure orderly trading if necessary , and there was considerable speculation during the day that the finance ministry was working behind the scenes to do just that . but in the absence of panicky trading , its presence was never overtly felt . at the close , the nikkei average of 225 stocks stood at 34468.69 , down 647.33 points , or 1.8 % . the broader tokyo stock price index sank 45.66 , or 1.7 % , to 2600.88 . the day 's decline was generally in line with analysts ' weekend predictions . declining issues swamped advancers , 941-105 . but volume was thin at 526.2 million shares , compared with 574.7 million friday . the market opened sharply lower , with the nikkei average down nearly 600 after 20 minutes . a midmorning rebound brought it back to show a gain of about 200 at the end of the morning session , but the rally failed in the afternoon , and the market closed near the day 's low . the smaller stocks in the tokyo market 's second section also posted their biggest decline of the year . the tokyo stock exchange index for the second section fell 100.96 , or 2.7 % , to 3655.40 . many investors , trying to outperform the market 's major indexes , have flocked to these small issues in recent weeks . japanese investors and traders expressed relief that the tokyo market did n't fall more sharply . but its performance did bear some resemblance to events of two years ago , during the october 1987 global stock market crash . on oct. 16 , 1987 -- the friday before the black monday crash -- the new york market dropped 4.6 % , and tokyo followed on monday with a 2.4 % drop . this time , wall street 's plunge of 6.9 % friday was followed by yesterday 's 1.8 % loss in tokyo . two years ago , tokyo 's biggest fall came the day after new york 's 22.6 % black monday plunge , when the nikkei average fell 14.9 % . thus , market participants yesterday were looking ahead nervously to wall street 's opening . but in new york yesterday , the dow jones industrial average surged 88.12 to close at 2657.38 on heavy volume of 416,290,000 shares , although declining issues still outnumbered advancing ones on the broad market . nobuto yasuda , a director at yamaichi investment trust & management co. , called yesterday 's session `` a good scenario '' for japan . `` now we are looking for the time 0 to place buy orders , '' he said . `` for us institutional investors , the chance for buying has come . '' isao ushikubo , general manager of the investment research department at toyo trust & banking co. , also was optimistic . he described friday 's plunge in the u.s. as a `` fleeting '' event resulting in part from excessive merger and acquisition activity . `` unless there is a panic , this is the best time 0 to buy , as was the case two years ago , '' he said . `` those shares which had posted gains on m&a speculation were dashed with cold water , but as far as major stocks are concerned , there is n't much impact . '' other fund managers were similarly sanguine . `` we have no plans to adjust our asset allocation in foreign equities , '' said masato murakami , chief portfolio manager in the pension fund management department at yasuda trust & banking co . he said 0 friday 's wall street decline was `` well within the range of volatility '' that yasuda trust plans for when it charts its overseas investment strategy . among other asian and pacific markets , malaysia and singapore had the biggest losses , with the kuala lumpur composite index in malaysia falling 11.5 % and singapore 's straits times industrial index down 10 % . major indexes declined more than 8 % in australia and new zealand and 6.5 % in hong kong . bangkok , manila , seoul , taipei and jakarta escaped with slightly smaller losses . brokers and fund managers said 0 the region 's markets were reacting to friday 's wall street plunge even though that decline was due to local factors such as failed corporate buy-outs and a deteriorating junk-bond market . `` it 's pure psychology , '' said william au yeung , an account executive for drexel burnham lambert -lrb- hk -rrb- ltd. in hong kong . `` markets in this region are n't so geared to leveraged buy-outs , and their economies generally are in good shape , but there 's no doubt that asia is still following america 's lead . '' several analysts said 0 malaysia and singapore had the biggest losses because they are relatively open to rapid cash flows . hong kong is the region 's next most open market , but many foreign investors have been staying away from it since it plunged in june amid political turmoil in china . `` singapore took the hit because when people want to get out , they tend to go where the liquidity is , '' said elizabeth hambrecht , a regional analyst with baring securities -lrb- hong kong -rrb- ltd . she pointed out that even after monday 's 10 % decline , the straits times index is up 24 % this year , so investors who bailed out generally did so profitably . similarly , kuala lumpur 's composite index yesterday ended 27.5 % above its 1988 close . in hong kong , the hang seng index fell 180.60 to finish at 2601.70 . trading was heavy at about one billion shares , compared with 473.9 million friday . but the session was orderly , in contrast to the market 's four-day closure after the 1987 crash . richard chenevix-trench , a director at hong kong-based baring international fund managers ltd. , said 0 the market probably has n't hit bottom yet but is close . `` if new york does n't collapse , i see maybe another 5 % on the downside , not counting the risk of bad news out of china , '' he said . in australia , sydney 's all ordinaries index closed at 1601.5 , down 8.1 % , its biggest drop since october 1987 . but volume rose only to 162 million shares from 143 million friday . nestor hinzack , an analyst at brokerage firm burdett , buckeridge & young ltd. , described the market 's performance as `` sheep-like '' as investors fled to bluechip australian stocks and shunned entrepreneurial companies 0 they perceived as having any takeover premium built into the price . london 's financial times-stock exchange 100-share index , the most closely watched market barometer , ended at its intraday high of 2163.4 , down 70.5 , or 3.2 % . at its low , shortly before wall street opened , it was off more than 130 points . the financial times 30-share index closed 79.3 points lower at 1738.7 . volume more than doubled to 959.3 million shares from 457.7 million friday . prices on the frankfurt stock exchange tumbled in heavy trading . the decline in the german stock index of 203.56 points , or 12.8 % , to 1385.72 was the frankfurt market 's steepest fall ever . retail investors dumped holdings on a massive scale , pushing some blue-chip shares down as much as 20 % . analysts cited memories of two years ago , when many small investors held on to their shares after the october crash but the west german market continued to decline steeply for the next three months . here are price trends on the world 's major stock markets , as calculated by morgan stanley capital international perspective , geneva . to make them directly comparable , each index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100 . the percentage change is since year-end .