bally manufacturing corp. and new york developer donald trump have agreed in principle to a $ 6.5 million settlement of shareholder litigation stemming from bally 's alleged greenmail payment to mr. trump . according to lawyers familiar with the settlement talks , the verbal agreement to end a lawsuit filed more than two years ago was reached last week and will soon be submitted to a federal judge in camden , n.j . in february 1987 , bally thwarted a possible hostile takeover bid from mr. trump by agreeing to buy 2.6 million of mr. trump 's 3.1 million bally shares for $ 83.7 million -- more than $ 18 million above market price . the term greenmail refers to a situation where a company pays a premium over market value to repurchase a stake held by a potential acquirer . lawyers for shareholders , bally and mr. trump all declined to talk publicly about the proposed settlement , citing a request by a federal court magistrate not to reveal details of the agreement until it is completed . but some attorneys who are familiar with the matter said 0 the $ 6.5 million payment will be shared by bally and mr. trump , with the casino and hotel concern probably paying the bulk of the money . the amount 0 bally and mr. trump will pay to settle the class-action suit pales in comparison to the $ 45 million 0 walt disney co. and saul steinberg 's reliance group holdings inc. agreed to pay to settle a similar suit in july . that settlement represented the first time 0 shareholders were granted a major payment in a greenmail case . mr. steinberg made a $ 59.7 million profit on the sale to disney of his investment in the company in 1984 . but lawyers said 0 mr. steinberg probably faced much more potential liability because , when he sued disney during his takeover battle , he filed on behalf of all shareholders . when disney offered to pay mr. steinberg a premium for his shares , the new york investor did n't demand 0 the company also pay a premium to other shareholders . when mr. trump sued bally , he sued only on behalf of himself . mr. trump and bally also appeared to have some leverage in the case because in the state of delaware , where bally is incorporated , courts have held that greenmail is often protected by the business-judgment rule . that rule gives boards of directors wide latitude in deciding how to deal with dissident shareholders . senate hears final arguments in impeachment trial of federal judge . yesterday , u.s. judge alcee hastings faced his jury -- the full u.s. senate -- and said , `` i am not guilty of having committed any crime . '' seventeen articles of impeachment against the florida judge , one of the few blacks on the u.s. bench , were approved by the house in august 1988 . the central charge against judge hastings is that he conspired with a washington lawyer to obtain a $ 150,000 bribe from defendants in a criminal case before the judge , in return for leniency . he is also accused of lying under oath and of leaking information obtained from a wiretap 0 he supervised . the senate 's public gallery was packed with judge hastings ' supporters , who erupted into applause after he finished his argument . judge hastings , who was acquitted of similar charges by a federal jury in 1983 , claims 0 he is being victimized and that the impeachment proceedings against him constitute double jeopardy . but rep. john bryant -lrb- d. , texas -rrb- , the lead counsel for the house managers who conducted a lengthy inquiry into judge hastings ' activities , said `` a mountain of evidence points to his certain guilt . '' the senate will deliberate behind closed doors today and is scheduled to vote on the impeachment tomorrow . if the judge is impeached , as is thought likely , he will be removed from office immediately . however , judge hastings has said 0 he will continue to fight and is contemplating an appeal of any impeachment to the u.s. supreme court . companies seeking to make insurers pay for pollution cleanup win court victory . in a case involving avondale industries inc. and its insurer , travelers cos. , the second u.s. circuit court of appeals in new york ruled in favor of the company on two issues that lawyers say 0 are central to dozens of pollution cases around the country . travelers and other insurers have maintained that cleanup costs are n't damages and thus are n't covered under commercial policies . they also have argued that government proceedings notifying a company of potential responsibility do n't fit the legal definition of a lawsuit ; thus , such governmental proceedings are n't covered by the policies , the insurers say 0 . the appeals court disagreed on both counts . avondale was notified by louisiana officials in 1986 that it was potentially responsible for a cleanup at an oil-recycling plant . avondale asked travelers to defend it in the state proceeding , but the insurer did n't respond . the appeals court upheld a district judge 's ruling that the insurer had to defend the company in such proceedings . the appeals court also said , 0 `` we think 0 an ordinary businessman reading this policy would have believed himself covered for the demands and potential damage claims '' stemming from any cleanup . `` this decision will have a very considerable impact , '' said 0 kenneth abraham , professor of environmental law and insurance law at the university of virginia , because many commercial insurance policies are issued by companies based in new york . william greaney , an attorney for the chemical manufacturers association , said that while other appeals courts have ruled differently on whether cleanup costs are damages , the influence of the appeals court in new york `` will make insurers sit up and listen . '' he said 0 the decision was the first in which a federal appeals court has ruled whether administrative government proceedings qualify as litigation . barry r. ostrager , an attorney for travelers , said , `` there are procedural bases on which this case will be appealed further . '' new york 's poor face nearly three million legal problems a year without legal help . that is the conclusion of a report released by the new york state bar association . the report was based on a telephone survey of 1,250 low-income households across the state , a mail survey of major legal-services programs and on-site interviews with individuals in the field . `` the report provides detailed documentation of the extent and nature of the problem and indicates how we may want to shape solutions , '' said joseph genova , chairman of the committee that oversaw the survey and a partner at the law firm of milbank , tweed , hadley & mccloy . according to the study , slightly more than 34 % of those surveyed reported having at least one housing problem every year for which they had no legal help . nearly 36 % ranked housing problems as their most serious unmet legal need . other areas targeted by the survey 's respondents included difficulty obtaining or maintaining public benefits -lrb- 22 % -rrb- , consumer fraud -lrb- 15.4 % -rrb- , and health-care issues -lrb- 15 % -rrb- . during the 15-month survey , 43 % of all legal-services programs said that at some period they were unable to accept new clients unless they had an emergency . mr. genova said 0 the committee may meet to propose solutions to the problems identified in the study . prosecutor to join gibson dunn : assistant u.s. attorney randy mastro , who headed the government 's racketeering case against the international brotherhood of teamsters , will join gibson , dunn & crutcher in its new york office . mr. mastro has been with the new york u.s. attorney 's office for nearly five years . in 1987 he became deputy chief of the civil division . mr. mastro will do civil litigation and white-collar defense work for gibson dunn , which is based in los angeles . former apple computer inc. general counsel john p. karalis has joined the phoenix , ariz. , law firm of brown & bain . mr. karalis , 51 , will specialize in corporate law and international law at the 110-lawyer firm . before joining apple in 1986 , mr. karalis served as general counsel at sperry corp .