bethlehem steel corp. , hammered by higher costs and lower shipments to key automotive and service-center customers , posted a 54 % drop in third-quarter profit . separately , two more of the nation 's top steelmakers -- armco inc. and national intergroup inc. -- reported lower operating earnings in their steel businesses , marking what is generally believed to be the end of a two-year boom in the industry . wall street analysts expect the disappointing trend to continue into the fourth quarter and through at least the first two quarters of 1990 , when the industry will increasingly see the effect of price erosion in major product lines , such as rolled sheet used for cars , appliances and construction . `` it does n't bode well for coming quarters , '' said john jacobson , who follows the steel industry for aus consultants . in fact , he thinks 0 several steelmakers will report actual losses through the third quarter of 1990 . bethlehem , the nation 's second largest steelmaker , earned $ 46.9 million , or 54 cents a share . the figures include $ 15 million in costs related to a blast furnace outage and $ 8 million in losses from unauthorized work outages at the company 's coal operations . in the year-ago period , bethlehem earned $ 101.4 million , or $ 1.27 a share , including a $ 3.8 million gain from early retirement of debt . third-quarter sales dropped 11 % to $ 1.27 billion from $ 1.43 billion a year ago . in composite trading on the new york stock exchange , bethlehem shares rose 50 cents to $ 17.375 . of all the major steelmakers , bethlehem would seem to be the most vulnerable to a slowdown . it has n't diversified beyond steel , nor has it linked up with a joint venture partner to share costs and risks . however , in spite of the difficult industrywide environment of high cost and low volume , bethlehem `` had pretty good earnings numbers , '' said 0 michelle galanter applebaum , an analyst with salomon brothers inc . ms. applebaum had estimated third-quarter earnings of 55 cents a share , but said 0 the losses for the unusual items were larger than expected . still , bethlehem 's core basic steel operations experienced a steep drop in operating profit to $ 58.6 million from $ 186.4 million a year ago , when the industry enjoyed strong demand and pricing . the company said 0 its shipments declined as a result of a reduction in inventories by service centers , a lackluster automotive market and increasing competitive pressures in the construction market . at the same time , production costs , compared with a year ago , were boosted by higher raw material and employment costs , which resulted from the company 's new labor pact effective june 1 . `` we anticipate that steel market conditions will exhibit a further moderate decline in the fourth quarter as the automotive sector remains weak and customers continue to adjust inventories , '' said bethlehem chairman walter f. williams . he noted , however , that the company 's order entry has increased from the low levels of the early summer , following the end of labor negotiations . armco , hampered by lower volume in its specialty steel business , said 0 third-quarter net income dropped 8 % to $ 33 million , or 35 cents a share , from $ 36 million , or 39 cents a share in the year-ago quarter . sales dropped to $ 441.1 million from $ 820.4 million , because the company no longer consolidates its eastern steel division , which is now a joint venture with kawasaki steel corp . along with reduced volume , analysts said 0 the nation 's fifth largest steelmaker was hurt by holding higher-cost inventory when raw material costs of such key products as nickel dropped . operating profit dropped 46 % in its specialty flat-rolled steel segment . moreover , the company said 0 higher sales and shipments to service centers from its armco steel co. joint venture failed to offset weakness in the automotive market , higher production costs and a poorer product mix . armco shares closed unchanged at $ 10.625 in composite trading on the new york stock exchange . national intergroup , which owns 50 % of the nation 's sixth largest steelmaker -- national steel corp. -- posted net income for the fiscal second-quarter of $ 8.6 million , or 33 cents a share , compared with a net loss of $ 50.3 million . sales increased in the quarter ended sept. 30 to $ 747.8 million from $ 623.5 million a year ago . the latest period includes gains of $ 9.1 million from early retirement of debt and tax loss carry-forward . last year 's results were hurt by $ 41.3 million in restructuring charges . national intergroup stock closed at $ 15 , unchanged in composite trading on the new york stock exchange . the company noted that its fox-meyer drug co. , ben franklin stores inc. and permian corp. operations showed improvements as a result of restructuring moves . however , its equity in the net income of national steel declined to $ 6.3 million from $ 10.9 million as a result of softer demand and lost orders following prolonged labor talks and a threatened strike . national intergroup is negotiating for the sale of its 50 % interest in national steel to concentrate more fully on drug distribution operations .