a series of explosions tore through the huge phillips petroleum co. plastics plant near here , injuring more than a hundred and closing parts of the houston ship channel . there were no immediate reports of deaths , but officials said 0 a number of workers were still unaccounted for last night . the bartlesville , okla. , oil company late yesterday still had n't said officially what caused the explosions and fires , which sent columns of heavy black smoke billowing high into the air . one local phillips manager said 0 a seal blew in one of the plant 's reactors . glenn cox , phillips ' president and chief operating officer , and other phillips officials flew from bartlesville to assess the damage and determine the cause of the afternoon explosions . in composite trading on the new york stock exchange , phillips petroleum shares fell $ 1.125 to $ 23.125 . the plastics plant is located on an 800-acre tract in the heart of the petrochemical corridor that reaches along the u.s. gulf coast . the u.s. coast guard closed six miles of the houston ship channel , where about 150 companies have operations , because the thick , black smoke obscured the area . the port of houston closed its terminal for handling bulk cargo . broken water lines and gas leaks hindered firefighters ' efforts , but by late yesterday authorities said 0 they had the fire under control . the blasts blew out windows , spewed debris for miles and crumpled the ceiling in an area elementary school . the initial fireball was caught by cameras in downtown houston , about 10 miles away . nearby pasadena , texas , police reported that 104 people had been taken to area hospitals , but a spokeswoman said 0 that toll could rise . the injured , including three in critical condition , were treated for burns , breathing problems and cuts from flying glass , hospital officials said 0 . the plant employs between 800 and 900 on three shifts . the number working at the time of the blast was n't known . yesterday 's explosions were the second round in two months at the plastics plant . in late august , four contract workers were injured and one phillips employee died after an explosion at a fuel supply line near the facility 's boiler house . the phillips facility manufactures polyethylene , polypropylene and k-resin , plastics used in a wide array of applications , including milk jugs and toys . plastics are the cornerstone of phillips ' chemicals operations , which is the biggest single contributor to the company 's profits .