cineplex odeon corp. directors said 0 the company 's chairman and chief executive , garth drabinsky , is considering bidding 780.6 million canadian dollars -lrb- us$ 666 million -rrb- to acquire the company . the board said 0 mr. drabinsky and vice chairman myron gottlieb are negotiating financing before offering c$ 16.40 a share to acquire all of cineplex 's shares outstanding . the directors added that the two executives have n't reached a final decision to proceed with a bid and that until an offer is made the board will continue seeking higher offers from other bidders . the directors said 0 if messrs. drabinsky and gottlieb mail an offer to shareholders by nov. 22 , it will reimburse them a maximum of c$ 8.5 million for expenses related to a bid . `` we consider that his bid is an acceptable bid , '' said sandra kolber , spokeswoman for the independent directors ' committee appointed last may to solicit and review bids for the company in the wake of a dispute between mr. drabinsky and cineplex 's major shareholder , mca inc . mca and cineplex 's other major shareholder , montreal-based financier charles bronfman and his associates , have agreed to tender their holdings to an offer by mr. drabinsky unless a higher offer is made by another bidder . mca holds half of cineplex 's equity and 33 % of its voting rights through restricted voting shares , while bronfman interests hold about 24 % of the company 's equity . ms. kolber said 0 the committee had received other bids . she declined to identify other bidders but said 0 mr. drabinsky 's offer `` is all cash , and it 's for all of the company . '' several cineplex analysts have speculated that outside bids received by the committee were either disappointingly low or for only part of the company . `` all 0 this has really established is that mca and the bronfmans have agreed on a price at which they can be bought out , '' said jeffery logsdon , an analyst with crowell , weedon in los angeles . `` if a bid materializes at that price , shareholders will have every reason 0 to be glad , but the question of financing still remains . '' last april , mr. drabinsky and a group of financial backers planned to acquire up to 30.2 % of cineplex for c$ 17.50 a share from bronfman associates . mr. drabinsky , who would have had the right to vote those shares for two years , said 0 the purchase , subsequently rejected by regulators , was aimed at consolidating his control of the company . mca strongly opposed the drabinsky group 's move . the directors did n't indicate the source of financing for mr. drabinsky 's new proposal , but said 0 mca and the bronfman associates agreed in principle to buy for $ 57 million and then lease back to cineplex its 18-screen theater complex in universal city , calif. , if mr. drabinsky succeeds in an offer . `` this is being done at the suggestion of -lcb- mr. drabinsky -rcb- and to accommodate him , to facilitate his financing arrangements , '' ms. kolber said . in addition , the directors said 0 if a bid by mr. drabinsky is successful , cineplex expects rank organisation plc to acquire the 51 % of cineplex 's film house unit 0 it does n't own , and provide mr. drabinsky with additional loan financing . michael gifford , rank 's chief executive , said 0 the british theater chain 's total involvement `` would n't exceed $ 100 million '' but declined to give a breakdown between the loan financing and the proposed film house purchase . cineplex shareholders responded coolly to yesterday 's announcement . in trading on the new york stock exchange , cineplex closed at $ 11 , down 25 cents , with more than a million shares changing hands . on the toronto stock exchange , cineplex closed at c$ 12.875 , off 37.5 canadian cents , well below the c$ 16.40 level . `` where 's the bid ? '' asked pierre panet-raymond , an analyst and broker with toronto securities dealer mcdermid st. lawrence ltd . mr. panet-raymond said 0 he does n't think 0 messrs. drabinsky and gottlieb are `` anywhere close '' to arranging financing and that investors will need a solid offer before the stock begins to rise again . mr. drabinsky could n't be reached for comment .