the supreme court agreed to decide whether the federal pension benefit guaranty corp. may require ltv corp. to reassume funding responsibility for a $ 2.3 billion shortfall in the company 's pension plans . the high court 's decision , expected next spring , may affect the stability of many large corporate pension plans that have relied on the availability of pension insurance provided by the federal pension regulatory and insurance agency . the agency , which is funded through insurance premiums from employers , insures pension benefits for some 30 million private-sector workers who take part in single-employer pension plans . it recently reported assets of $ 2.4 billion and liabilities of $ 4 billion . in its appeal to the high court , the agency said the federal appeals court ruling , which favored ltv , threatened to transform the agency from an insurer of troubled pension plans into an `` open-ended source of industry bailouts . '' the ruling also may determine how quickly ltv is able to complete its chapter 11 reorganization . ltv filed for protection under chapter 11 in federal bankruptcy court in 1986 . the filing was partly the result of the $ 2.3 billion shortfall in ltv 's three pension plans operated for its ltv steel co. subsidiary 's employees . in january 1987 , as ltv steel continued operating while under reorganization , the agency terminated the three ltv pension plans to keep its insurance liability from increasing . termination means that the agency 's insurance assumes the liabilities and pays the pension benefits already owed under the plans , but workers do n't accrue new benefits . a few months later , under pressure from the united steelworkers of america , ltv instituted a new program 0 to provide retirement benefits similar to those in the terminated plans . because the federal pension agency had taken over the old plans , ltv would be responsible only for benefits paid under the new pension plans . but the agency viewed the creation of the new plans as an abuse of federal pension law and an attempt to transfer the liability of the $ 2.3 billion shortfall from ltv to federal insurance . the agency also concluded that ltv 's financial status had improved while it was under reorganization . in september 1987 , it ordered ltv to reassume liability and funding for the three original plans . ltv challenged the order , and a federal district court in new york in june 1988 ruled that the agency improperly ordered ltv to reassume responsibility for the plans . in may , a federal appeals court in new york agreed that the agency acted unlawfully . the appeals court said 0 there was no evidence that congress intended to allow the pension agency to consider a company 's creation of new benefit plans as a basis for ordering that company to reassume liability for old plans . the appeals court also said 0 the agency had to consider a company 's long-term ability to fund pension plans , not just short-term improved financial status . in dallas , ltv said that it was disappointed that the court agreed to hear the case because it believes 0 the move will further delay its chapter 11 proceedings . the company has n't been able to come up with a reorganization plan , in part , because of the sizable disagreement with the pension agency . but ltv , a steel , aerospace and energy concern , said 0 it is confident that the supreme court will uphold the lower-court decisions and said 0 it expects to continue discussions with the agency about a settlement while the case is being reviewed . -lrb- pension benefit guaranty corp. vs. ltv corp .