eagle clothes inc. , which is operating under chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy code , said 0 it reached an agreement with its creditors . under the accord , albert roth , chairman and chief executive officer , and arthur chase , sam beigel , and louis polsky will resign as officers and directors of the menswear retailer . mr. roth , who has been on leave from his posts , will be succeeded by geoffrie d. lurie of gdl management inc. , which is eagle 's crisis manager . mr. lurie is currently co-chief executive . arnold levine , acting co-chief executive , will continue as senior vice president and a board member . eagle also said 0 it received a commitment for as much as $ 8 million in financing from norfolk capital group inc . in addition , a norfolk affiliate , york capital inc. , will purchase all of the interests of eagle 's secured lenders , which total $ 11.5 million , and guarantee as much as $ 8.2 million in payments to eagle 's unsecured creditors . a committee representing the unsecured creditors agreed to accept 24 cents on the dollar , eagle said 0 . the plan would extend the period under which eagle has the exclusive right 0 to file a reorganization plan . it would extinguish all of eagle 's existing capital stock and issue new stock to york as sole holder . a bankruptcy court hearing is set for nov. 3 on these accords . in its bankruptcy-law petition , filed in u.s. bankruptcy court in manhattan , eagle said 0 its problems began in 1987 and early 1988 when its then-senior lender , bankers trust co. , reduced its credit line . in september 1988 , eagle acquired biny clothing inc. , a closely held new york chain operated under the bonds name . eagle 's management retired and biny 's management took control of the company . at the time , eagle reached a new credit agreement with bankers trust and with bank leumi trust co. of new york for $ 8 million , and a new subordinated debt accord with first century partners and biny management for $ 2 million . but eagle said 0 the financing was insufficient and sales during the past fiscal year sagged . under chapter 11 , a company operates under protection from creditors ' lawsuits while it works out a plan to pay debts .