marsh & mclennan cos. said 0 it agreed to acquire the rest of gradmann & holler , a leading west german insurance brokerage firm in which it has held a 15 % stake for 15 years . the transaction , for cash and stock , would represent the biggest european takeover since 1980 for new york-based marsh & mclennan , the world 's largest insurance broker . it 's also the first major sign of the long-awaited consolidation in the european insurance industry as the european community commission moves toward a single market by 1992 . protective barriers will start coming down within the insurance industry next summer , when big industrial companies will be able to buy insurance from carriers in any other ec country for the first time . that 's why `` we have been working hard to develop a single , more unified presence in europe , '' said 0 a.j.c. smith , marsh & mclennan 's president , at a london news conference yesterday . analysts speculated that marsh & mclennan would spend between 250 million marks -lrb- $ 136.4 million -rrb- and 350 million marks for the rest of gradmann & holler , or roughly 25 to 30 times the private firm 's estimated earnings . `` this is paying a big price to maintain their virility as the world 's leading insurance broker , '' said philip olsen , an analyst at kitcat & aitken , a u.k. brokerage firm . earlier this year , new york life insurance co. agreed to acquire windsor group ltd. , a first step toward establishing a presence in the european market ahead of 1992 . but most u.s. insurers have n't rushed to change the way 0 they do business in europe because they believe 0 the european market will still be dominated by a handful of domestic companies . under the proposed combination , marsh & mclennan would gain a majority stake in gradmann & holler that would increase over time to the rest of the remaining 85 % . the three managing general partners would receive a `` significant '' number of marsh & mclennan shares , said 0 walther l. kiep , a partner who would also join marsh & mclennan 's board . mr. kiep said 0 he sought the combination because `` all our large clients in germany are becoming european companies or multinational companies and they expect an insurance broker '' to serve them as well in paris as in germany . beatrice e. garcia in philadelphia contributed to this article .