`` the croaker 's done gone from the hook -- damn ! my language sure goes to pot down here on the coast . '' the husky blond guide with the aggie cap twists his face in mock fury . `` i got to get back to school and straighten out my english . '' he has two more years at texas a&m . right now he takes people out to fish in the bays behind the barrier islands that curve for hundreds of miles along the eastern coast of texas , enclosing milky green lagoons behind ridges of sand and grassy scrub that rim the deep blue of the gulf beyond . there have been three days of hot , wind-swept rain , and now with the first sun we are after speckled seatrout , which with redfish provides most of the game fishing hereabouts . the little radio fizzes as other boats want to see if we have found any fish -- spotting location is everything in this sport . negative answers crackle back . the fish often are plentiful around the pilings of the old gas wells that dot the flat surface like the remains of sunken ships . we go from one to the other . the sun is hot now though it 's only 8 in the morning . the great silver clouds on the horizon build themselves on the pale water . we cruise toward another set of pilings . the guide scoops into a pail and puts a frantically wiggling croaker on the hook . then he casts out . `` just wait for that tap-tap , that thump-thump . it comes real gentle before it pulls . do n't forget , 0 trout have very soft mouths . '' the radio queries again . `` pickin ' one or two , '' says the guide , chuckling . `` you can tell 0 they 've got nothin ' . '' a pair of black skimmers zig-zag past close to the surface . soon we have our limit of the shimmering fish stippled in rose-gold and black . and we are the first back at the dock , where the great blue herons stand waiting by the cleaning benches . the guide is young and he knows this business but he wants a different life after college , such as working for ibm and wearing a necktie . this must be the last big stretch of the american seacoast that is `` undeveloped . '' there are a few ramshackle fishing towns with quiet atolls of resort houses nearby . people are not apt to be self-conscious about the place or themselves . texas is big and beautiful and they live here , that 's all . jutting out just to the north of us is the blackjack peninsula -lrb- after the oak , not the game -rrb- which forms the core of the aransas wildlife refuge . it is famous as the winter home of the whooping crane , that symbol of the destruction of wild america . last year a gunner shot a whooper by mistake thinking that it was a snow goose . he paid an immense fine and was lucky , according to a local wag , to escape the gas chamber . the peninsula comes off the vast southeastern alluvial plain with fields of rice and cotton and sorghum as far as the eye can see . near the coast there are dense coverts of live oak interspersed with marshes and prairies . deer , wild hog , armadillos and alligators are the glamour quadrupeds and the birds are innumerable , especially the herons and the spoonbills . above the blossoms of lantana and scarlet pea the inky-brown and golden palamedes butterfly floats on its lazy wingbeat . inland a few miles from the refuge there is a place called tivoli , with a white church , a gas station and a grocery , the houses relatively close together for such a settlement in these parts . `` tivoli motel , '' i read a sign in the usual pronunciation of the name as we whoosh through . `` here in south texas we say tie-vole-ee , '' my host gently corrects . mr. king is the director of the foreign press center in new york .