as the hunt brothers ' personal bankruptcy cases sputter into their second year , minpeco s.a. has proposed a deal 0 to settle its huge claim against the troubled texas oil men . but the plan only threatens to heighten the tension and confusion already surrounding the cases that were filed in september 1988 . the peruvian mineral concern 's $ 251 million claim stems from 1988 jury award in a case stemming from the brothers ' alleged attempts to corner the 1979-80 silver market . minpeco now says 0 it is willing to settle for up to $ 65.7 million from each brother , although the actual amount would probably be much less . although the proposal must be approved by federal judge harold c. abramson , w. herbert hunt has agreed to the peruvian mineral concern 's proposal . nelson bunker hunt is considering it , although his attorney says 0 he wo n't do it if the proposal jeopardizes a tentative settlement 0 he has reached with the internal revenue service , which claims 0 the brothers owe $ 1 billion in back taxes and is by far the biggest creditor in both cases . the tentative agreement between the irs and nelson bunker hunt is awaiting u.s. justice department approval . under it , the former billionaire 's assets would be liquidated with the irs getting 80 % of the proceeds and the rest being divided among other creditors , including minpeco and manufacturers hanover trust co. , which is seeking repayment of a $ 36 million loan . a similiar proposal has been made in the w. herbert hunt case although he and the irs are at odds over the size of the non-dischargable debt 0 he would have to pay to the government from future earnings . in both cases , minpeco and manufacturers hanover have been fighting ferociously over their shares of the pie . with support from the irs , manufacturers hanover has filed suit asking judge abramson to subordinate minpeco 's claim to those of manufacturer hanover and the irs . minpeco has threatened a `` volcano '' of litigation if the manufacturers hanover corp. unit attempts to force such a plan through the court . minpeco said 0 it would n't pursue such litigation if its settlement plan in the w. herbert hunt case is approved by judge abramson , who will consider the proposal at a hearing next week . minpeco attorney thomas gorman decribed the plan as one step toward an overall settlement of the w. herbert hunt case but hugh ray , attorney for manufacturers hanover , called it `` silly '' and said 0 he would fight it in court . `` the thing is so fluid right now that there 's really no way 0 to say what will happen , '' says justice department attorney grover hartt iii , who represents the irs in the case . `` developments like this are hard 0 to predict .