fujitsu ltd. 's top executive took the unusual step of publicly apologizing for his company 's making bids of just one yen for several local government projects , while computer rival nec corp. made a written apology for indulging in the same practice . meanwhile , business and government leaders rebuked the computer makers , and fretted about the broader statement 0 the companies ' actions make about japanese cutthroat pricing . fujitsu said 0 it bid the equivalent of less than a u.s. penny on three separate municipal contracts during the past two years . the company also disclosed that during that period it offered 10,000 yen , or about $ 70 , for another contract . but fujitsu , japan 's no. 1 computer maker , is n't alone . nec , one of its largest domestic competitors , said 0 it bid one yen in two separate public auctions since 1987 . in both cases , nec lost the contract to fujitsu , which made the same bid and won a tie-breaking lottery . all the contracts were for computer-system-design contracts and involved no hardware or software . the ministry of international trade and industry summoned executives from the companies to `` make sure 0 they understood '' the concern about such practices , according to a government spokesman . `` these cases lead to the loss of the firms ' social and international credibility , '' a ministry statement said . japan 's fair trade commission has said 0 it is considering investigating the bids for possible antitrust-law violations . `` we would like to apologize for having caused huge trouble , '' fujitsu president takuma yamamoto , read from a prepared statement as he stood before a packed news conference at his company 's downtown headquarters . the bids , he added 0 , were `` contrary to common sense . '' nec released a statement saying , `` we feel sorry for having caused trouble to society , '' a form of apology common in japan for companies caught in embarrassing situations . japanese companies have long had a reputation for sacrificing short-term profits to make a sale that may have long-term benefits . but the growing controversy comes as many practices historically accepted as normal here -- such as politicians accepting substantial gifts from businessmen or having extramarital affairs -- are coming under close ethical scrutiny . the fire is also fueled by growing international interest in japanese behavior . so far there have been no public overseas complaints about the issue . but in one of the auctions in question , international business machines corp. made a bid substantially higher than the fujitsu offer , according to the municipality . the low-ball bids touch on issues central to the increasingly tense trade debate . foreigners complain that they have limited access to government procurement in japan , in part because japanese companies unfairly undercut them . the u.s. government in recent years has accused japanese companies of excessively slashing prices on semiconductors and supercomputers -- products 0 fujitsu and nec make . asked whether the bidding flap would hurt u.s.-japan relations , mr. yamamoto said , `` this will be a minus factor . '' the `` one-yen '' controversy first came to a head last week when the city of hiroshima announced that fujitsu won a contract to design a computer system 0 to map its waterworks . the city had expected to pay about 11 million yen -lrb- $ 77,000 -rrb- , but fujitsu essentially offered to do it for free . then wednesday , fujitsu said 0 it made a similar bid to win a library contract in nagano prefecture two weeks earlier . it also said that in july , it bid 10,000 yen to design a system for the saitama prefectural library , and two years ago , it bid one yen to plan the telecommunications system for wakayama prefecture . the company said 0 it has offered to withdraw its bids in hiroshima and nagano . the municipalities said 0 they have n't decided whether to try to force the company to go through with the contracts . fujitsu and nec said 0 they were still investigating , and that knowledge of more such bids could emerge . mr. yamamoto insisted that headquarters had n't approved the bids , and that he did n't know about most of the cases until wednesday . other major japanese computer companies contacted yesterday said 0 they have never made such bids . `` one yen is not ethical , '' michio sasaki , an official at keidanren , the japan federation of economic organizations , said . `` profit may be low , but at least costs should be covered .