richard g. sim , the man credited with transforming applied power inc. from an underachiever into a feisty player in the global market for hydraulic tools , hopes to guide a similar turnaround at the company 's latest acquisition , barry wright corp . the 45-year-old former general electric co. executive figures 0 it will be easier this time . but analysts , while applauding the acquisition , say 0 applied 's chief executive faces a tough challenge in integrating the two companies . barry wright , acquired by applied for $ 147 million , makes computer-room equipment and vibration-control systems . the watertown , mass. , company 's sales have been dormant and its profits have dropped . last year 's earnings of $ 1.3 million , including $ 815,000 from a restructuring gain , were far below the year-earlier $ 8.4 million . besides spurring barry wright 's sales , which were $ 201.7 million in 1988 , mr. sim must pare its costs and product line . `` the question is how long it 's going to take barry wright to make a contribution , '' says f. john mirek , an analyst at blunt ellis loewi in milwaukee . the answer will help determine whether applied continues to reach the ambitious goals set by mr. sim . the butler , wis. , manufacturer went public at $ 15.75 a share in august 1987 , and mr. sim 's goal then was a $ 29 per-share price by 1992 . strong earnings growth helped achieve that price far ahead of schedule , in august 1988 . the stock has since softened , trading around $ 25 a share last week and closing yesterday at $ 23.00 in national over-the-counter trading . but mr. sim has set a fresh target of $ 50 a share by the end of reaching that goal , says 0 robert t. foote , applied 's chief financial officer , will require `` efficient reinvestment '' of cash by applied and continuation of its healthy 19 % rate of return on operating capital . in barry wright , mr. sim sees a situation `` very similar '' to the one 0 he faced when he joined applied as president and chief operating officer in 1985 . applied , then a closely held company , was stagnating under the management of its controlling family . while profitable , it `` was n't growing and was n't providing a satisfactory return on invested capital , '' he says 0 . mr. sim is confident that the drive to dominate certain niche markets will work at barry wright as it has at applied . he also professes an `` evangelical '' fervor 0 to develop a corporate culture that rewards managers who produce and where decision-making is shared . mr. sim considers the new unit 's operations `` fundamentally sound '' and adds that barry wright has been fairly successful in moving into markets that have n't interested larger competitors . `` with a little patience , these businesses will perform very satisfactorily , '' mr. sim says . within about six months , `` things will be moving in the right direction , '' he predicts 0 . mr. sim figures 0 it will be easier to turn barry wright around since he 's now in the driver 's seat . when he came to applied , `` i did n't have the power to execute as i do today , '' he says 0 . he was named chief executive officer of applied in 1986 and became chairman last november . at applied , mr. sim set growth as his first objective . he took the company public in an offering that netted applied about $ 12.6 million , which helped launch the company 's acquisition program . sales climbed to an estimated $ 245 million in fiscal 1989 , ended aug. 31 , from $ 99.9 million in fiscal 1985 . the company expects that earnings , which have marched steadily upward in recent years , reached about $ 20.8 million , or $ 1.58 a share , in the fiscal year just ended , up from $ 15.2 million in fiscal 1988 and $ 3.9 million in 1985 .