part of a series -rcb- betty lombardi is a mild-mannered homemaker and grandmother in rural hunterdon county , n.j . but put her behind a shopping cart and she turns ruthless . if colgate toothpaste offers a tempting money-saving coupon , she 'll cross crest off her shopping list without a second thought . never mind that her husband prefers crest . some weeks when her supermarket runs a double-coupon promotion , she boasts that she shaves $ 22 off her bill . money is n't the only thing that makes her dump once favorite brands . after she heard about the artery-clogging hazards of tropical oils in many cookies , she dropped pepperidge farm and started buying brands free of such oils . `` i always thought 0 pepperidge farm was tasty and high quality , '' mrs. lombardi says . `` but i do n't want any of that oil for my grandkids . '' -lrb- pepperidge farm says 0 it ca n't tell exactly how many customers it has lost , but it hopes to remove the objectionable tropical oil from all its products by year end . -rrb- clearly , people like mrs. lombardi are giving marketers fits . she represents a new breed of savvy consumer who puts bargain prices , nutritional and environmental concerns , and other priorities ahead of old-fashioned brand loyalty . while brand loyalty is far from dead , marketing experts say 0 it has eroded during the 1980s . marketers themselves are partly to blame : they 've increased spending for coupons and other short-term promotions at the expense of image-building advertising . what 's more , a flood of new products has given consumers a dizzying choice of brands , many of which are virtually carbon copies of one other . `` marketers have brought this on themselves with their heavy use '' of promotions , contends 0 joe plummer , an executive vice president at the d'arcy masius benton & bowles ad agency . `` without some real product improvements , it 's going to be difficult to win that loyalty back . '' the wall street journal 's `` american way of buying '' survey this year found that most consumers switch brands for many of the products 0 they use . for the survey , peter d. hart research associates asked some 2,000 consumers , including mrs. lombardi , whether they usually buy one brand of a certain type of product or have no brand loyalty . more than half the users of 17 of the 25 products included in the survey said 0 they 're brand switchers . overall , 12 % of consumers are n't brand loyal for any of the 25 product categories . about 47 % are loyal for one to five of the products . only 2 % are brand loyal in 16 to 20 of the categories , and no one is loyal for more than 20 types of products . for such products as canned vegetables and athletic shoes , devotion to a single brand was quite low , with fewer than 30 % saying 0 they usually buy the same brand . only for cigarettes , mayonnaise and toothpaste did more than 60 % of users say 0 they typically stick with the same brand . people tend to be most loyal to brands that have distinctive flavors , such as cigarettes and ketchup . kathie huff , a respondent in the journal survey from spokane , wash. , says 0 her husband is adamant about eating only hunt 's ketchup . he simply ca n't stomach the taste of heinz , she says 0 . the 31-year-old homemaker adds , `` the only other thing 0 i 'm really loyal to is my virginia slims cigarettes . coke and pepsi are all the same to me , and i usually buy whichever brand of coffee happens to be on sale . '' brand imagery plays a significant role in loyalty to such products as cigarettes , perfume and beer . people often stay with a particular brand because they want to be associated with the image 0 its advertising conveys , whether that 's macho marlboro cigarettes or cher 's uninhibited perfume . loyalty lags most for utilitarian products like trash bags and batteries . only 23 % of trash-bag users in the journal survey usually buy the same brand , and just 29 % of battery buyers stick to one brand . underwear scored a middling 36 % in brand loyalty , but consumer researchers say 0 that 's actually quite high for such a mundane product . `` in the past , you just wore fruit of the loom and did n't care , '' says peter kim , u.s. director of consumer behavior research for the j. walter thompson ad agency . `` the high score reflects the attempts to make underwear more of a fashion image business for both men and women . '' he believes 0 there 's opportunity for a smart gasoline marketer to create a strong brand image and more consumer loyalty . what loyalty 0 there is to gas brands , he believes 0 , is a matter of stopping at the most conveniently located service stations . brand loyalty was stronger among older consumers in the journal survey . nearly one-fourth of participants age 60 and older claim brand loyalty for more than 10 of the 25 products in the survey ; only 9 % of those age 18 to 29 have such strong allegiance . higher-income people also tend to be more brand loyal these days , the journal survey and other research studies indicate 0 . marketers speculate that more affluent people tend to lead more pressured lives and do n't have time 0 to research the products 0 they buy for the highest quality and most reasonable price . an established brand name is insurance that at least the product will be of acceptable quality , if not always the best value for the money . it 's sort of loyalty by default . meanwhile , `` the bottom end of the market is becoming less loyal , '' says 0 laurel cutler , vice chairman of the ad agency fcb\/leber katz partners . `` they 're buying whatever 's cheaper . '' the biggest wild card in the brand loyalty game : how those hotly pursued but highly unpredictable baby boomers will behave as they move into middle age . they grew up with more brand choices than any generation and have shown less allegiance so far . but now that they 're settling down and raising families , might they also show more stability in their brand choices ? mr. kim of j. walter thompson does n't think so . he believes 0 baby boomers will continue to be selective in their brand loyalties . `` earlier generations were brand loyal across categories , '' he says , `` but boomers tend to be brand loyal in categories like running shoes and bottled water , but less so in others like toilet paper and appliances . '' while not as brand loyal as in the past , consumers today do n't buy products capriciously , either . rather , they tend to have a set of two or three favorites . sometimes , they 'll choose ragu spaghetti sauce ; other times , it will be prego . advertisers attribute this shared loyalty to the striking similarity among brands . if a more absorbent pampers hits the market , you can be sure 0 a new and improved huggies wo n't be far behind . the bbdo worldwide ad agency studied `` brand parity '' and found that consumers believe 0 all brands are about the same in a number of categories , particularly credit cards , paper towels , dry soups and snack chips . `` when there 's a clutter of brands , consumers simplify the complexity by telling themselves , ` all brands are the same so what difference does it make which i buy , ' '' says karen olshan , a senior vice president at bbdo . `` too often , advertising imagery has n't done a good job of forging a special emotional bond between a brand and the consumer . '' but given such strong brand disloyalty , some marketers are putting renewed emphasis on image advertising . a small but growing number of companies are also trying to instill more fervent brand loyalty through such personalized direct-marketing ploys as catalogs , magazines and membership clubs for brand users . while discount promotions are essential for most brands , some companies concede 0 they went overboard in shifting money from advertising to coupons , refunds and other sales incentives . some people argue that strong brands can afford to stop advertising for a time because of the residual impact of hundreds of millions of dollars spent on advertising through the years . but most companies are too afraid to take that chance . and perhaps with good reason . says clayt wilhite , president of the d'arcy masius ad agency 's u.s. division , `` every time 0 24 hours pass without any advertising reinforcement , brand loyalty will diminish ever so slightly -- even for a powerful brand like budweiser . '' consider , for example , what happened to maxwell house coffee . the kraft general foods brand stopped advertising for about a year in 1987 and gave up several market share points and its leadership position in the coffee business . but since returning to advertising , maxwell house has regained the lost share and is running neck and neck with archrival folgers . `` now , philip morris -lcb- kraft general foods ' parent company -rcb- is committed to the coffee business and to increased advertising for maxwell house , '' says dick mayer , president of the general foods usa division . `` even though brand loyalty is rather strong for coffee , we need advertising to maintain and strengthen it . '' campbell soup co. , for one , has concluded that it makes good sense to focus more on its most loyal customers than on people who buy competitive brands . `` the probability of converting a non-user to your brand is about three in 1,000 , '' says tony adams , the company 's vice president for marketing research . `` the best odds are with your core franchise . our heavy users consume two to three cans of soup a week , and we 'd like to increase that . '' so campbell is talking to its `` brand enthusiasts , '' probing their psychological attachment to its soup . in one consumer focus group , a fan declared that , `` campbell 's soup is like getting a hug from a friend . '' that helped persuade the company to introduce a new advertising slogan : `` a warm hug from campbell 's . ''