it is quite unfortunate that you failed so miserably in reporting the hurricane hugo disaster . your sept. 27 page-one article `` charleston lost quite a lot to hugo , especially gentility '' leaves the impression that the storm was little more than an inconvenience . the damage reported focused on a select few who owned irreplaceable historic homes on the battery . not mentioned were the 50,000 people rendered homeless , and the more than 200,000 out of work for an indeterminable period ; the $ 1 billion-plus in losses to homes and personal property on the barrier islands ; the near - and long-term impact on the state 's largest industry , tourism , not to mention the human suffering . in centering on the disruption of a few proud local customs such as the historic homes tour and the damage to the antiquities , your reporter served to only perpetuate an outdated and stereotypically provincial view of this otherwise thriving port city . the damage will undoubtedly prove to be one of the epic human and economic disasters of the decade in this country . david m. carroll columbia , s.c . your story was tasteless and insensitive . depicting the people of a traumatized city reeling from a disaster of unprecedented proportions was at the very best ludicrous under the circumstances . your narrow focus appears to be a contrived attempt to show the people of that historic city to be doddering fools . you had to have been blind not to see the scenario there for what it was and is and will continue to be for months and even years -- a part of south carolina that has sustained a blow that the red cross expects 0 will cost that organization alone some $ 38 million . william c. barksdale jr . columbia , s.c . charleston is historic and aristocratic , as your reporter said 0 , but not haughty , as he suggested 0 . charlestonians are instead indomitable and have contributed mightily to the culture and history of our country for more than 300 years . i suggest 0 your reporter see charleston next spring in its full glory . william c. stuart iii silver spring , md .