-lrb- during its centennial year , the wall street journal will report events of the past century that stand as milestones of american business history . -rrb- thomas jefferson sold congress on the idea of the decimal system for currency , thus saving americans the headaches of pounds , shillings and pence . but he struck out with the decimal system of metric weights and measures 0 the french had invented . instead , congress opted for the inches , feet and yards 0 the colonists had brought with them . americans did n't dislike metrics ; they simply ignored them . scientists felt differently . in 1807 , the swiss mathematician who headed the u.s. coast and geodetic survey made an `` iron meter '' that he had brought from europe the standard of measure . by the end of the century scientists had embraced the system . businessmen took their cue from the engineers . when congress finally passed the metric conversion act in 1975 , industry was far ahead . because the law made compliance voluntary , it inspired little more than jokes . -lrb- the press had a field day with questions about what would happen to `` six-footer , '' `` yardstick '' and `` inchworm . '' -rrb- today , though the public is barely aware , much of u.s. industry , particularly companies manufacturing or selling overseas , have made metrics routine . general motors , for example , uses metric terms for its automobile bodies and power trains . -lrb- in auto advertising , however , items such as wheelbases are still described in inches . -rrb- farm-machine makers such as caterpillar and deere work in the metric system . the liquor industry went metric 10 years ago . the pentagon has led the charge , particularly as military alliances spread world-wide . new weapons systems will be around until the next century , notes 0 john tascher , the defense department 's metric coordinator . still , like the auto makers , when dealing with mr. everyman the pentagon sticks to the tried and true . soldiers and sailors are still measured in inches and pounds .