small businesses say 0 a recent trend is like a dream come true : more-affordable rates for employee-health insurance , initially at least . but then they wake up to a nightmare . the reasonable first-year rates can be followed by increases of 60 % or more if a covered employee files a major claim , they complain . insurance premiums for one small maryland concern went up 130 % in less than two years , the last increase coming after one of its three workers developed a herniated disk . `` there 's a distinct possibility that i may lose my job over this , '' the employee , karen allen , of floor covering resources , kensington , md. , recently told a congressional hearing . she said 0 her employer ca n't afford the rate increases , and she fears 0 she wo n't find another job with a benefit plan covering her ailment . for employee and employer alike , the worry is widespread . surveys repeatedly show that small-business owners rank the availability and rising cost of health insurance as one of their biggest concerns . the house energy and commerce committee 's health subcommittee , headed by democratic rep. henry waxman of california , is looking into complaints that small businesses not only ca n't keep reasonably priced employee-health insurance if claims are filed , but often ca n't get coverage at all if a worker is termed medically uninsurable . `` i have an old-fashioned name for people in that position : sick people who need health insurance , '' rep. waxman says . `` what we 're seeing now makes a mockery of the idea of insurance : collect premiums from the healthy , dump the sick and let them pay their own bills . '' some lawmakers may seek legislation 0 to limit overly restrictive insurance policies . the concern grows out of increased efforts by the insurers to woo the small-business market . as larger companies increasingly self-insure , or use reserves to pay their own workers ' medical bills , the insurance industry has turned to the small-employer market that was once a backwater for them . `` insurance companies will offer a good rate if no one is sick , but it 's a roll of the dice , '' says rosemary heinhold of the small business service bureau , a group representing 35,000 small businesses nationwide . `` one case of cancer or a high-risk pregnancy with a sick infant , and rates go up 40 % to 60 % . small-business people end up paying insurance premiums worth two to three times the cost of one illness . '' in addition , the group says 0 some of its member companies have been denied insurance because individual workers had medical problems that ranged from a mild cardiac condition to psychological counseling after a divorce , hemorrhoids and overweight . the health insurance association of america , an insurers ' trade group , acknowledges that stiff competition among its members to insure businesses likely to be good risks during the first year of coverage has aggravated the problem in the small-business market . but it says that rapid rate increases are directly tied to the soaring cost of health care . some business analysts blame the problem on tough competition in the insurance market . they say 0 insurance companies use policies aimed at excluding bad risks because their competitors do . but the general practice makes it more difficult to combine small groups of people into larger groups , thus spreading the risk over a larger base of premiums . `` i 'm not accusing insurers of dereliction of duty , '' robert patricelli of the u.s. chamber of commerce told mr. waxman 's panel . `` you ca n't ask one carrier to underwrite on social grounds when that might destroy it in the marketplace . '' rep. waxman and democratic sen. edward kennedy of massachusetts have proposed regulation 0 to deal with the problem . the proposal is just part of legislation that would require businesses to provide health benefits , an idea that is strongly opposed by small business who say 0 it would just compound the insurance-cost problems . but small-business lobbyists say 0 they support the idea , included in the kennedy-waxman bill , of new laws or regulations requiring greater use of community rating , which pegs rates to the use of health care by a community or other large group , and is designed to prevent insurance companies from taking only low-risk small companies as clients . but first on the list of priorities , says 0 the national federation of independent business , is to prohibit state laws requiring the inclusion of specialty items , such as psychiatric care , in basic health plans . such requirements , they argue 0 , make it difficult to provide a basic , low-cost health-benefits package . `` before the state of wisconsin mandated that mental-health care be covered , there were only 70 mental-health clinics in the state ; now there are 400 , '' says carolyn miller , an nfib lobbyist . she contends that similar mandates have driven up insurance costs 20 % in maryland and 30 % in california . the insurance-industry association also strongly disagrees with the proposed community rating , which `` does n't save one dollar , '' argues james dorsch , hiaa 's washington counsel . `` it just makes healthy businesses subsidize unhealthy ones and gives each employer less incentive to keep his workers healthy . '' mr. dorsch says 0 the hiaa is working on a proposal to establish a privately funded reinsurance mechanism 0 to help cover small groups that ca n't get insurance without excluding certain employees . the complexities of the insurance problem make the outcome difficult to predict . but to ms. allen , the employee whose back problem triggered a huge insurance-rate increase , the issue was simple . `` what good is having health insurance , '' she asked , `` when it 's so expensive that it becomes impossible 0 to keep after only one major claim ?