federal reserve chairman alan greenspan told congress that the fed can wipe out inflation without causing a recession , but he said doing so will inflict some short-term pain and will require reducing the federal deficit sharply . mr. greenspan said 0 he and other fed governors endorse a bill by rep. stephen neal -lrb- d. , n.c. -rrb- that would require the fed to pursue policies aimed at eliminating inflation within five years . `` such a deadline is attainable , but it would have costs , '' mr. greenspan told rep. neal 's monetary policy subcommittee 0 . the fed chief opposed a bill - introduced by reps. lee hamilton -lrb- d. , ind. -rrb- and byron dorgan -lrb- d. , n.d. -rrb- -- that , among other things , would require the fed to disclose all monetary policy moves immediately and increase outside scrutiny of the fed . in responding to questions , mr. greenspan played down reports of tension between the fed and the treasury over exchange-rate policy . `` what seem to be interpreted as great conflicts are relatively minor issues of tactics , '' he said . he did n't elaborate . but the fed is n't enthusiastic about treasury efforts to bring down the value of the dollar through intervention in foreign-exchange markets , and the treasury is frustrated at the fed 's reluctance to cut interest rates to pull down the dollar 's value . mr. greenspan said 0 the inflation rate , currently about 4 1\/2 % , `` could be brought down to levels which are close to zero without putting the economy into a recession , but i do suspect that there might be some modest loss of economic output . '' in other words , economic growth would be lower and unemployment would be higher for a few years . but mr. greenspan , who has repeatedly said 0 the fed 's goal is to reduce inflation , added that `` whatever losses are incurred in the pursuing of price stability would surely be more than made up in increased output thereafter . '' he warned that fed efforts to conquer inflation would fail -- and could produce `` a major financial crunch '' -- unless they are accompanied by a significant reduction in the federal deficit , which causes the government to borrow heavily . rep. neal 's bill originally called on the fed to reduce the inflation rate by one percentage point a year for five years and to maintain a zero inflation rate thereafter . he altered the wording to win mr. greenspan 's endorsement . even so , his bill is given little chance of passage . reps. hamilton and dorgan also have altered their bill , dropping a proposal to add the treasury secretary to the 12-member fed committee that makes monetary policy . instead , the bill simply calls for twice-a-year meetings between the committee and top administration officials . even that met with mr. greenspan 's disapproval because it might subject the fed `` to a more intensely political perspective '' and `` could risk bending monetary policy away from long-term strategic goals . '' while each of the hamilton-dorgan proposals represents only a small step , together they would erode the fed 's independence , mr. greenspan said 0 . mr. greenspan also said that although he favors cutting capital-gains taxes as sound economic policy , he would oppose such a move if it would undo the political compromise embodied in the tax reform act of 1986 and result in higher marginal income tax rates .