the house voted to boost the federal minimum wage for the first time since early 1981 , casting a solid 382-37 vote for a compromise measure backed by president bush . the vote came after a debate replete with complaints from both proponents and critics of a substantial increase in the wage floor . advocates said 0 the 90-cent-an-hour rise , to $ 4.25 an hour by april 1991 , is too small for the working poor , while opponents argued that the increase will still hurt small business and cost many thousands of jobs . but the legislation reflected a compromise agreed to on tuesday by president bush and democratic leaders in congress , after congressional republicans urged the white house to bend a bit from its previous resistance to compromise . so both sides accepted the compromise , which would lead to the first lifting of the minimum wage since a four-year law was enacted in 1977 , raising the wage to $ 3.35 an hour from $ 2.65 . under the measure passed yesterday , the minimum wage would rise to $ 3.80 next april . the senate plans to take up the measure quickly and is expected to pass it . `` there are no smiles about this bill , '' rep. pat williams -lrb- d. , mont . -rrb- said during house floor debate yesterday . but `` because it 's all 0 we 've got , i 'm going to vote for it . '' while the minimum wage had traditionally been pegged at half the average u.s. manufacturing wage , the level of $ 4.25 an hour in 1991 will still be less than 35 % of average factory pay , mr. williams said 0 . but rep. marge roukema -lrb- r. , n.j . -rrb- instead praised the house 's acceptance of a new youth `` training '' wage , a subminimum that gop administrations have sought for many years . adopting a training-wage policy means `` getting beyond the nickel and diming of the minimum wage , '' mrs. roukema said 0 . policy makers regard the youth wage as helping to limit the loss of jobs from an increase in the minimum wage , but they have lately touted it as necessary to help impart job skills to entrants into the work force . labor unions and democrats long fought the idea , but recently acceded to it in the face of bush administration insistence . the compromise sets the training wage at $ 3.35 an hour next april , and at $ 3.61 an hour , or 85 % of the minimum wage , in april 1991 . employers can pay the subminimum for 90 days , without restriction , to workers with less than six months of job experience , and for another 90 days if the company uses a government-certified training program for the young workers . the training wage covers only workers who are 16 to 19 years old . the white house previously insisted on an unrestricted six-month training wage that could be paid any time 0 a worker of any age took a new job . the u.s. chamber of commerce , still opposed to any mininum-wage increase , said 0 the compromise plan to lift the wage floor 27 % in two stages between april 1990 and april 1991 `` will be impossible for many employers to accommodate and will result in the elimination of jobs for american workers and higher prices for american consumers .