a potentially safer whooping cough vaccine made by novel genetic engineering techniques was described by a team of italian , u.s. and japanese scientists . the team reported 0 they managed to induce bacteria to produce a non-toxic version of the poisons produced by the bacterium that causes whooping cough . laboratory tests showed that non-toxic versions of the poisons are capable of inducing an immunity to whooping cough , the researchers reported 0 in this week 's issue of the journal science . the current vaccine for whooping cough , or pertussis , is part of the `` dpt '' -lrb- for diphtheria , pertussis , tetanus -rrb- shot given most infants and young children . the vaccine is effective in preventing a disease that still afflicts about 60 million children a year world-wide , causing an estimated one million deaths . the vaccine , however , causes allergic reactions that can be fatal . the reactions stem from the fact that the vaccine contains multiple copies of the whole bordetella pertussis bacterium , which causes whooping cough . this bacterium produces a toxin that , if used as a vaccine , can induce immunity to whooping cough . unfortunately , the toxin is also poisonous . the italian-led scientific team said 0 they had succeeded in getting bacteria to produce a non-toxic version of the pertussis toxin , which could be used as a safe vaccine . the researchers reported 0 they have been able to pluck the five genes that produced the toxin out of the pertussis bacterium . it turned out that although it took all five genes to produce the toxin , only one was responsible for the toxin 's virulence . ordinarily in genetic engineering each of these genes , minus the one that caused the virulence , would have been transferred to another bacterium , called e. coli , which would then produce a nonvirulent version of the toxin . the researchers said 0 they did this , but the toxin did n't induce immunity to whooping cough . the scientists then took the five toxin genes and triggered a mutation in the one gene that caused virulence . then , using a new technique -lrb- called homologous recombination -rrb- for introducing genes into cells , they transferred all five genes to bacteria closely related to the pertussis organism . these bacterial `` cousins '' ordinarily do n't make the toxin . but the genes were accompanied by a piece of dna , called a promoter , that turns the genes on . the new bacteria recipients of the genes began producing pertussis toxin which , because of the mutant virulence gene , was no longer toxic . experiments showed that the new , non-virulent toxin is capable of inducing immunity , according to the researchers from the selavo research center in siena , italy , the medical college of wisconsin in milwaukee and the japanese national institutes of health .