the roller-coaster stock market is making life tougher for small companies trying to raise money . in the wake of friday 's plunge and yesterday 's rebound , some companies are already postponing deals , and others wish 0 they could . as in other jittery times , many small businesses expect a particularly rough time raising funds as investors shun risky deals , seeking safety in bigger companies . even if stock prices fully recover from friday 's sharp decline , the unsettled conditions will frighten many investors . `` the implication of an unsettled situation is that the thing could drop dramatically , '' says henry linsert jr. , chairman of martek corp. , a four-year-old biotechnology company that is planning a private placement of stock . `` the more variables that indicate risk , the more 0 the investor is going to drive a hard bargain . '' earlier this month , staples inc. , a newton , mass. , office-supplies discounter , said 0 it would accelerate expansion plans nationwide and offer more of its stock to the public . at the time , its shares were selling above their initial offering price of $ 19 , and bankers believed 0 staples would sell new stock without a hitch . but with the company 's shares standing at $ 15 yesterday , a new offering seems unlikely , company officials say 0 . business , however , continues to be `` robust , '' and the stock market has n't affected the concern 's expansion plans , says 0 todd krasnow , a senior executive . other companies figure 0 they ca n't avoid the market . `` we have capital requirements , '' says 0 mr. linsert , `` so we have to go ahead '' with a planned $ 1.5 billion private placement . unless the market goes right back up , he says 0 , `` it may take us six to nine months to find the money , instead of three . '' and the columbia , md. , company may have to settle for a lower price , he adds 0 . life is particularly nerve-racking for companies that had planned to go public this week . hand-holding is becoming an investment-banking job requirement . robertson , stephens & co. , a san francisco investment banking concern , has a client that looked forward to making its initial public offering yesterday . officers of the company , a health-care concern , `` were very discouraged on friday and felt 0 they should n't go public ; we felt 0 they should , '' says 0 sanford robertson , partner in the banking concern . as the market dropped friday , robertson stephens slashed the value of the offering by 7 % . yesterday , when similar securities rebounded , it bumped the valuation up again . as of late yesterday , the ipo was still on . for many , the situation is especially discouraging because the market for ipos was showing signs of strengthening after several years of weakness . `` we were just beginning to look at the increase in ipos , seeing the light at the end of the tunnel , '' says frank kline jr. , partner in lambda funds , a beverly hills , calif. , venture capital concern . `` but the tunnel 's just gotten longer . '' companies planning to go public `` are definitely taking a second look , '' says 0 allen hadhazy , senior analyst at the institute for econometric research , fort lauderdale , fla. , which publishes the new issues newsletter on ipos . he calculates that the recent market slide translated into a 5 % to 7 % reduction in ipo proceeds to companies . many companies are hesitating . exabyte corp. had been planning to sell 10 % of its stock this week in an ipo that would raise up to $ 28.5 million . but now , peter behrendt , president , says , `` we 're making decisions on a day-to-day basis . '' debt-free and profitable , the boulder , colo. , computer-products concern could borrow funds if it decides against an ipo now , he says 0 . knowledgeware inc. , an atlanta computer-software concern , says 0 it is still planning to go ahead with its ipo this week or next -- unless conditions change . `` it 's a wait-and-see situation right now , '' says terry mcgowan , president . delayed financings also would affect the operations of many companies . sierra tucson cos. , a tucson , ariz. , operator of addiction-treatment centers , has a planned doubling of capacity riding on an ipo scheduled for next week . william o'donnell , president , says 0 he still thinks 0 the ipo will succeed . if it does n't , he says 0 , the company would have to change its expansion timetable . but the market turmoil could be partially beneficial for some small businesses . in a sagging market , the federal reserve system `` might flood the market with funds , and that should bring interest rates down , '' says 0 leonard t. anctil , vice president of the bank of new england , boston . james g. zafris , president of danvers savings bank , danvers , mass. , says 0 the market turmoil `` is an absolute non-event for small business . '' for small companies , he says 0 , interest rates are far more important than what happens on stock exchanges . mr. zafris thinks 0 rates are heading down , helping small companies . peter drake , biotechnology analyst for vector securities international , chicago , thinks 0 market uncertainty may encourage small companies to form more strategic alliances with big corporations . partly because the 1987 market crash made it harder for them to find financing , many high-technology concerns have made such alliances recently . some even see a silver lining in the dark clouds . alan wells , president of bollinger , wells , lett & co. , a new york merger specialist , thinks 0 panicky investors may lose their enthusiasm for leveraged buy-out and giant takeover deals . instead , they could turn to investing in smaller deals involving smaller companies , he says 0 . and william e. wetzel jr. , a university of new hampshire management professor and director of venture capital network inc. , says 0 the market 's gyrations will underline the investors ' lack of control in big stock investments . this will add to the appeal of small business , he says 0 , where investors often have a degree of influence .