the polish rat will eat well this winter . tons of delectably rotting potatoes , barley and wheat will fill damp barns across the land as thousands of farmers turn the state 's buyers away . many a piglet wo n't be born as a result , and many a ham will never hang in a butcher shop . but with inflation raging , grain in the barn will still be a safer bet for the private farmer than money in the bank . once again , the indomitable peasant holds poland 's future in his hands . until his labor can produce a profit in this dying and distorted system , even solidarity 's sympathetic new government wo n't win him over . in coming months , emergency food aid moving in from the west will be the one buffer between a meat-hungry public and a new political calamity . factory workers on strike knocked poland 's communist bosses off balance last year ; this year , it was the farmers who brought them down . in june , farmers held onto meat , milk and grain , waiting for july 's usual state-directed price rises . the communists froze prices instead . the farmers ran a boycott , and meat disappeared from the shops . on aug. 1 , the state tore up its controls , and food prices leaped . without buffer stocks , inflation exploded . that was when the tame old peasants ' party , desperate to live through the crisis , broke ranks with the communists and joined with solidarity in the east bloc 's first liberated government . but by the time 0 solidarity took office in september , the damage was done . `` shortageflation , '' as economists have come to call it , had gone hyper . the cost of raising a pig kept bounding ahead of the return for selling one . the farmers stayed angry . they still are . at dawn on a cool day , hundreds travel to the private market in radzymin , a town not far from warsaw , hauling pigs , cattle and sacks of feed that the state 's official buyers ca n't induce them to sell . here , they are searching for a higher price . in a crush of trucks and horse carts on the trodden field , andrzej latowski wrestles a screeching , overweight hog into the trunk of a private butcher 's polish fiat . `` of course it 's better to sell private , '' he says , as the butcher trundles away . `` why should anybody want to sell to them ? '' the young farmer makes money on the few hogs 0 he sells here . he wo n't for long , because his old state sources of rye and potatoes are drying up . `` there 's no feed , '' he says . `` you ca n't buy anything nowadays . i do n't know why . '' edward chojnowski does . his truck is parked across the field , in a row of grain sellers . like the others , it is loaded with rye , wheat and oats in sacks labeled `` asbestos . made in u.s.s.r . '' the farmer at the next truck shouts , `` wheat ! it 's nice ! it wo n't be cheaper ! we sell direct ! '' a heavy , kerchiefed woman runs a handful through her fingers , and counts him out a pile of zlotys . `` country people breed pigs , '' says mr. chojnowski , leaning against the back of his truck . `` they ca n't buy feed from the state . there is n't enough . some state middlemen come to buy from me . i sell -- a little . i am waiting . i have plenty more at home . '' on this morning , he does n't sell much in radzymin , either . at closing time , farmers cart out most of what they carted in . a private market like this just is n't big enough to absorb all that business . the hulk of stalinism , it seems 0 , will not quickly crumble away . state monopolies will keep on stifling trade , `` free '' prices or not , until something else replaces them . polish agriculture will need a whole private network of procurement , processing and distribution -- plus a new manufacturing industry 0 to supply it with tractors , pesticides , fertilizers and feed . the communists spent 40 years working to ensure that no such capitalistic structures ever arose here . building them now will require undergirding from the west , and removal of political deadwood , a job that solidarity has barely started . but polish agriculture does possess one great asset already : the private farmer . `` we are dealing with real entrepreneurs , '' says antoni leopold , an economist who advises rural solidarity , the union 's countryside offshoot . `` there are a lot of them , and they have property . '' polish peasants , spurning the collectivizers , were once a source of shame to orthodox communists . now , among communist reformers , they are objects of envy . food is the reformer 's top priority , the key to popular support . as the chinese have shown and the soviets are learning , family farms thrive where collectives fail . ownership , it seems 0 , is the best fertilizer . the poles have had it all along . poland 's 2.7 million small private farms cover 76 % of its arable land . on it , a quarter of the country 's 39 million people produce three-quarters of its grain , beef , eggs and milk , and nine-tenths of its fruit , vegetables and potatoes . like the roman catholic church , the polish peasant is a pillar of the nation . try as they might , the communists could neither replace nor break him . and they did try . a few miles past radzymin , a dirt road narrows to a track of sand and leads into zalubice , a village of tumbledown farms . czeslaw pyszkiewicz owns 30 acres in 14 scattered scraps . he grows rye and potatoes for a few hens , five cows and 25 piglets . in patched pants and torn shoes , he stands in his barnyard eyeing the ground with a look both helpless and sardonic . `` it 's bad soil , '' he says . until 1963 , it was good soil . then the state put in a reservoir to supply the area with drinking water . farmers lay down before the bulldozers . their protest was ignored . the dam caused the water level to drop in zalubice . mr pyszkiewicz smiles and his brow furrows . he expected as much . in his lifetime , 47 years , the communists brought electricity to his village and piped in drinking water from the reservoir . no phones . no gas . `` we wanted them to build a road here , '' he says . `` they started , and then abandoned it . '' a tractor , his only mechanized equipment , stands in front of the pigsty . `` it 's russian . good for nothing . parts are a tragedy . even if i had a lot of money , i could n't buy what i need . '' the farmer can say the same for coal , cement , saw blades . in poland , only 4 % of all investment goes toward making things 0 farmers want ; in the west , it is closer to 20 % . the few big state farms take first crack at what does get made . they use 60 % more fertilizer per acre , twice the high-grade feed . yet their best boast is that they produce 32 % of polish pork . `` i 've heard from friends that state farms are subsidized , '' mr. pyszkiewicz says as his wife , wieslawa , sets some chairs out in the sun . `` we have one near here . there is a lot of waste . a private farmer never wastes anything . '' the state quit shoving peasants onto its subsidized farms over 30 years ago . but it never did let up on the pressure . until recently , a farmer with no heir had to will the state his land to collect his pension . the pension 's size still depends on how much produce he sells the state . his allotment of materials also did , until the state could n't hold up its end of that bargain . yet the state alone sells seeds and machines . when supplies are short , it often hands them over only in exchange for milk or grain . a private farmer in poland is free to buy and sell land , hire help , decide what to grow and how to grow it . he is free to invest in chickens , and to fail for lack of chicken wire . he has plenty of freedom -- but no choices . `` i 'm on my own land , '' mr. pyszkiewicz says . `` i do n't have to listen to what anybody tells me to do . '' `` sometimes , '' says his wife , `` we 're happy about that . '' by starving the peasant , the communists have starved poland . villages like zalubice exist in a desert of poor schools and few doctors . farm income is 15 % below the average . the young leave , especially girls who wo n't milk cows by hand . some men stay , their best friend a bottle of vodka , but two million acres have gone fallow . without machines , good farms ca n't get bigger . so the potato crop , once 47 million tons , is down to 35 million . meat consumption is at 1979 's level , pork production at 1973 's , milk output at 1960 's . if a food crisis undid the communists , a food revolution will make solidarity . the potential is displayed along every road into warsaw : row upon row of greenhouses , stretching out behind modern mansions that trumpet their owners ' wealth . vegetables are abundant and full of flavor in poland , the pickles and sauerkraut sublime , the state monopolies long broken . grain , milk and meat come next . a private challenge to the monolithic tractor industry will take more time and money than poland can spare , although a smokehouse or a local dairy can spring up fast . poland makes no machinery for a plant on that scale . solidarity wants it from the west . maria stolzman , one of its farm experts , lays it on the line : `` the world bank will be brought in to help us destroy the old system . '' felix siemienas is destroying it now . he packs pork . a law went on the books in january that let him smoke bacon without breeding pigs . he cashed in . poland is short on enterprises , not enterprise . `` i pay a lot to the farmer and five times the state salary to my employees , '' he says . he is in warsaw to open a shop . `` i hire transportation , and my customers have fresh cold cuts every day . i do n't subsidize anyone . everyone around me lives well . yes , my prices are high . if nobody buys , i bring my prices down . that 's the rule . that 's the market . '' mr. siemienas is making a fortune -- $ 10,000 a month , he says 0 . he has bought some trendy western clothes , and a green mercedes with an american flag in the window . but the meat-processing machines 0 he picked up are 50 years old . `` i do n't want expensive machines . if the situation changes , i 'll get stuck with them . '' that 's politics . by taking power in a deal with the peasant party 's onetime communist stooges , solidarity has spooked the rural entrepreneur . rural solidarity objected , to no avail , when solidarity leader lech walesa accepted the peasants ' support . it objected again in september when prime minister tadeusz mazowiecki reluctantly named a peasant party man as his agriculture minister . both the peasants and rural solidarity are forming new political parties for farmers . the peasants can make a credible case , against solidarity , that hell-bent reform will drive millions from the land . next spring , the two will battle in local elections . but until then , and probably long afterward , the communists ' apparat of obstruction -- from the head of the dairy co-op to the village bank manager -- will stay planted in the polish countryside . `` we know how to get from capitalism to socialism , '' sergiusz niciporuk is saying one afternoon . `` we do n't know how to get from socialism to capitalism . '' he farms 12 acres in grabowiec , two miles from the soviet border in one of poland 's poorest places . now he is mounting the steps of a stucco building in a nearby village , on a visit to the communist administrator , the `` naczelnik . '' `` many people in poland hope 0 this government will break down , '' says mr. niciporuk , who belongs to the local council and to rural solidarity . `` that 's what the naczelnik counts on . he is our most dangerous enemy . every time 0 he sees me , he gets very nervous . '' the farmer barges into the naczelnik 's office . a thin man in a gray suit looks up from a newspaper . mr. niciporuk sits . anatol pawlowski 's leg begins jiggling beneath his desk . `` solidarity does n't care for the good of this region , '' he says after a few pleasantries . `` they want to turn everything upside down in a week . mr. niciporuk here wants 60 acres used at the moment by a state farm . he ca n't guarantee that he can use it any better . '' `` i am ready at any moment to compete with a state farm . '' the naczelnik averts his eyes . `` what have you got ? not even a tractor . and you want to make wicker baskets , too . '' `` i can do five things at once -- to be a businessman . '' `` big business , '' mr. pawlowski snorts in english . the farmer stands to go . the naczelnik stands , too . `` i care very much for this post , '' he says . `` eight years i 've had it . a cultural center has been built , shops . suddenly , i am not a comfortable man for solidarity . i have accomplished too much . they want to do more . i wish them all the best ! '' the farmer leaves . and the naczelnik shuts his door .