whitbread & co. put its spirits division up for sale , triggering a scramble among global groups for the british company 's brands . whitbread already has been approached by `` about half a dozen '' companies interested in buying all or part of the spirits business , a spokesman said 0 . analysts expect the spirits operations and some california vineyards that also are being sold to fetch about # 500 million -lrb- $ 788.8 million -rrb- . among the brands for sale are beefeater gin , the no. 2 imported gin in the u.s. , and laphroaig single-malt whiskey . also for sale are buckingham wile co. , which distributes cutty sark blended whiskey in the u.s. , and whitbread 's atlas peak vineyards in california 's napa valley . beefeater alone is worth as much as # 300 million , analysts said 0 . whitbread bought the beefeater distillery two years ago for # 174.5 million . that purchase represented an attempt by whitbread , a venerable british brewer , to become a major player in the global liquor business . but whitbread has been squeezed by giant rivals amid widespread consolidation in the industry . now , it wants to concentrate on beer and its newer hotel and restaurant operations . for rival liquor companies , the whitbread auction is a rare opportunity to acquire valuable brands . `` it 's not very often 0 something like this comes up , '' said ron littleboy , a liquor company analyst at nomura research institute in london . `` the division will be sold off quite rapidly , '' predicted neill junor , an analyst at london brokers county natwest woodmac . among possible buyers , grand metropolitan plc might find beefeater a useful addition to its portfolio . grand met owns bombay gin , the no. 3 imported gin in the u.s. ; rival guinness plc has the no. 1 imported brand , tanqueray . the whitbread spirits auction `` is an extremely interesting development ... and naturally we 'll be considering it carefully , '' a grand met spokesman said 0 . guinness , which owns several leading whiskey brands plus gordon 's gin , the world 's no. 1 gin , is considered less likely to bid for the whitbread spirits . a guinness spokesman declined to comment . two other global liquor giants , canada 's seagram co. and britain 's allied-lyons plc , also are possible buyers . seagram 's gin is the world 's no. 2 gin brand , but the company does n't own any of the major gin brands imported in the u.s. . allied-lyons , while powerful in whiskey , does n't own any major white-spirit brands . `` we will certainly have to take a look at '' the whitbread spirits business , an allied-lyons spokesman said 0 . `` we would certainly like to have a major white-spirits brand in our portfolio . '' a seagram spokesman in new york would n't comment . smaller liquor companies , such as brown-forman corp. and american brands inc. of the u.s. , also are likely to be interested . such companies `` are increasingly being left behind '' in the global liquor business , says 0 nomura 's mr. littleboy . in new york , a spokesman for american brands would n't comment . brown-forman , a louisville , ky. distiller , also declined to comment . whitbread 's wine , spirits and soft-drink operations had trading profit of # 35.4 million on sales of # 315.5 million in the year ended feb. 25 . the company , which is retaining most of its wine and all of its soft-drink interests , did n't break out results for the businesses 0 it plans to sell . but analysts estimate their trading profit at # 30 million . whitbread had total pretax profit in the year ended feb. 25 of # 223.2 million , on sales of # 2.26 billion . whitbread 's spirits auction occurs amid a parallel shakeup in the british beer industry . earlier this year , the government announced plans to foster increased competition in the industry . british brewers currently own thousands of pubs , which in turn sell only the breweries ' beer and soft drinks . under new rules , many of the country 's pubs would become `` free houses , '' selling beers of their choice . whitbread now intends to bolster its brewing interests , in an effort to grab a share of sales to free houses . the company , which last month paid # 50.7 million for regional british brewer boddington group plc , has about 13 % of the british beer market . whitbread also owns the license to brew and distribute heineken and stella artois beers in britain . in addition , whitbread intends to focus on its newer hotel , liquor store and restaurant businesses in europe and north america . in britain , those interests include the beefeater steakhouse chain and joint ownership with pepsico inc. of the country 's pizza hut chain . in canada and the u.s. , whitbread owns the keg chain of steak and seafood restaurants . focusing on beer , restaurants and hotels means 0 `` we can concentrate our skills and resources more effectively , '' peter jarvis , whitbread 's managing director , said 0 in a statement . the spirits business `` would require substantial additional investment to enable it to compete effectively in the first division of global players . '' whitbread also announced that mr. jarvis , who is 48 , will become the company 's chief executive march 1 . at that time sam whitbread , the company 's chairman and a descendant of its 18th-century founder , will retire from executive duties . he will retain the honorary title of non-executive chairman .