if you 're still wondering about the causes of the slump in the junk-bond market , consider the case of columbia savings & loan . the california thrift has just announced a $ 226 million third-quarter loss . how did this happen ? well , when congress in its recent s&l bailout mandated that the thrifts sell off all their junk-bond holdings by 1994 , it not only artificially increased the supply of these bonds in the market but also eliminated one of the few profitable investments 0 thrifts have made . but there is a grimly ironic twist to the columbia loss . as followers of the debate over a capital-gains tax cut know , there is much talk in congress and indeed all over washington about the need to `` encourage '' long-term investment and discourage the financial sector 's presumed obsession with the short term . now , we regard this as a largely phony issue , but the `` long term '' is nonetheless a big salon topic all around the beltway . it turns out that columbia had this huge loss in large part because the new congressionally mandated rules forced it to adjust the book value of its soon-to-be-sold junk bonds to the lower of either their cost or market value . they could no longer be classified as what columbia regarded them , namely long-term investments . congress 's ham-handed treatment of the existing structure of junk-bond holdings reminds us of a story in the journal earlier this year about the baby bell companies ' desire to have the court-ordered bans lifted on offering information services . the issue of seeking relief from congress was raised to delbert staley , the chairman of nynex . mr. staley replied : `` legislation tends to be compromised . i believe 0 we have to take a shot at getting as much done as we can through the court , through justice and through state and federal regulatory agencies . i see congress as a last resort . '' healthy thrifts such as columbia or the junk-bond market itself should have been so lucky . the reality of life in modern america is that if you want to wreck something that works , let it fall into the hands of congress .