at the ritzy fashion island shopping center , the tanned and elegant ladies of this wealthy southern california beach community disembark from their mercedes-benzes and bmws for another day of exercising their credit cards . they root among the designer offerings at neiman-marcus and bullocks wilshire . they stroll through the marble-encased corridors of the atrium court . they graze at the farmers market , a combination gourmet food court and grocery store , while a pianist accompanies the noon fashion show with a selection of dreamy melodies . `` the beautiful look of wool , '' croons the show 's narrator , `` slightly victorian in its influence ... . '' meanwhile , in the squat office buildings that ring fashion island , the odds are good that someone is getting fleeced . law-enforcement authorities say that at any given time , a host of fraudulent telemarketing operations mingle with the many legitimate businesses here . `` they seem to like these industrial parks , '' says kacy mcclelland , a postal inspector who specializes in mail fraud . `` we call them fraud farms . '' welcome to that welter of contradictions known as newport beach . this city of more than 70,000 is known for sunshine , yachts and rich residents . it is also known as the fraud capital of the u.s. , dubbed by investigators and the media as the `` cote de fraud '' . how does a community famous for its high living end up as a haven for low-lifes ? clearly , the existence of the former lures the latter . the places renowned for breeding bunco , like the miami neighborhood known as the `` maggot mile '' and las vegas 's flashy strip of casinos , invariably offer fast cars , high rollers , glamorous women and lots of sunshine . you do n't hear much about unusual concentrations of fraud in green bay or buffalo . con men hate snow . newport beach fits the scam artists ' specifications perfectly . what more could a con man in search of the easy life ask for ? nothing seems hard here . the breezes are soft , the waves lap gently and the palm trees sway lazily . nightlife is plentiful . moreover , ostentation is appreciated . the median price of homes is $ 547,000 ; more than 9,000 vessels fill what the chamber of commerce calls the nation 's largest pleasure-boat harbor . `` blondes , cocaine and corvettes , '' mutters mr. mcclelland . `` that 's what they 're after . '' the rich image of newport beach also helps lend the con artists ' operation an air of respectability . `` one reason 0 they use newport beach is that it sounds swankier than most addresses , '' says david katz , a u.s. attorney who , until recently , headed a multi-agency southern california fraud task force . `` newport beach is known in rhode island for having a lot of rich people . '' no wonder 0 all kinds of big-time scams have flourished here , from phony tax-sheltered bible sales to crooked car dealers to bogus penny-stock traders . but above all , this is the national headquarters for boiler-room operators , those slick-talking snake-oil salesmen who use the telephone to extract money from the gullible and the greedy and then vanish . because only a fraction of them are ever prosecuted , nobody really knows how much money bogus telemarketing operators really harvest . `` i 've heard that there is $ 40 billion taken in nationwide by boiler rooms every year , '' mr. mcclelland says . `` if that 's true , orange county has to be at least 10 % of that . '' and most of the truly big scams in orange county seem to originate in newport beach or one of the other well-heeled communities that surround this sliver-like city that hooks around a point of land on the california coast south of los angeles . in fact , sophisticated big-bucks boiler-room scams are known generically among law-enforcement types as `` newport beach '' operations . that contrasts with the penny-ante sales of things such as pen-and-pencil sets and office supplies that are known as `` hollywood '' scams . newport beach telemarketers concentrate on precious metals and oil-leasing deals that typically cost thousands of dollars a shot . the investors range from elderly widows to affluent professionals . in one ingenious recent example of a newport beach boiler room , prospective investors in capital trust inc. were allegedly told that their investment in precious metals was insured against losses `` caused by employees due to dishonesty , destruction or disappearance , '' according to an indictment handed up by a federal grand jury in los angeles last month . thus falsely reassured , investors sent $ 11.4 million to the newport beach company , most of which was diverted to unauthorized uses , the indictment charges 0 . douglas jones , an attorney representing richard o. kelly sr. , the chairman and president of capital trust , says 0 his client denies that there was any attempt to defraud investors . `` there were some business deals that went bad , '' mr. jones says , `` but no intent to defraud . '' newport beach operations differ from the hollywood boiler rooms in style as well as in dollars . traditionally , boiler rooms operate on the cheap , since few , if any , customers ever visit their offices . indeed , the name derives from the tendency among telemarketing scammers to rent cheap basement space , near the boiler room . but , says 0 mr. katz , the u.s. attorney , `` the interesting thing about newport beach operations is that they give themselves the indulgence of beautiful offices , with plush furnishings . when we go there , it 's quite different from these hollywood places where the sandwiches are spread out on the table and the people are picking their noses . '' the newport beach operators also tend to indulge themselves privately . investigators cite the case of matthew valentine , who is currently serving a six-year sentence at lompoc federal prison for his role in intech investment corp. , which promised investors returns of as much as 625 % on precious metals . mr. valentine , who pleaded guilty to five counts of fraud in federal court in los angeles , drove a leased mercedes and lived in an expensive home on lido isle , an island in newport 's harbor , according to investigators . with the $ 3 million received from investors , he took frequent junkets with friends to exotic locales and leased an expensive bmw for his girlfriend , whom he met at the shop where he got his custom-tailored suits . `` it 's amazing the amount of money that goes up their nose , out to the dog track or to the tables in las vegas , '' mr. katz says . all this talk of boiler rooms and fraud is unnerving to the city 's legitimate business element . vincent m ciavarella , regional manager of property management systems , insists 0 he does n't know of any bogus telemarketers operating in the 1.6 million square feet of office space around fashion island that his company leases for irvine co. , the owner and developer of the project . mr. ciavarella has rejected a few prospective tenants who provided `` incomplete '' financial information and acknowledges that illegitimate operators `` are not easily detectable . '' -lrb- investigators stress that building owners are victims , too , since boiler rooms often leave without paying rent . -rrb- richard luehrs , president of the newport harbor area chamber of commerce , calls boiler rooms a `` negative 0 we wish 0 we could get rid of . '' actually , `` we do n't get much negative publicity about this , '' he insists 0 , `` except for the press who write about it . '' mr. lancaster is deputy chief of the wall street journal 's dallas bureau .