spooked investors , despite their stampede to dump takeover stocks , should hold on tight to their jaguar shares . that 's the view of some analysts here who argue that britain 's leading maker of luxury cars still may have two u.s. auto giants battling for it . yesterday , ford motor disclosed that it has raised its holding in jaguar to 10.4 % from 5 % . both ford and its rival general motors recently set their sights on grabbing significant minority stakes in the british company . ford 's latest move increases the pressure on gm to complete its current talks with jaguar quickly . gm is likely to reach the cooperative operating pact 0 it has been seeking in about two weeks , knowledgeable individuals say 0 . at that point investors may face a long , bumpy ride . a victor in the fight for jaguar may not emerge until after the expiration late next year of british government takeover restrictions . the curbs prevent a buyer from purchasing more than 15 % of jaguar shares without permission . `` this is an exceptionally odd takeover battle , '' says london analyst christopher will of shearson lehman hutton . jaguar 's american depositary receipts were up 3\/8 yesterday in a down market , closing at 10 3\/8 . -lrb- jaguar 's adrs make the company one of the most widely held united kingdom stocks in the u.s. , with more than one-fourth of its shares owned there . -rrb- jaguar topped the most-active list for the u.s. over-the-counter market monday . and on london 's stock exchange monday , 18.5 million shares were traded , far above the usual volume . ford 's share purchases undoubtedly accounted for much of monday 's heavy trading . last week , many jaguar shareholders took their money and ran . fears that ford 's ardor might be cooling put jaguar shares into reverse after gm confirmed its friendly negotiations with jaguar . but yesterday 's announcement indicates that ford has n't lost interest . both shearson 's mr . will and stephen reitman , european auto analyst at the london brokerage firm ubs-phillips & drew , recently switched their jaguar recommendations to hold from buy . `` sit tight '' through the coming volatility , mr. reitman suggests 0 , though he concedes that many small investors will find jaguar 's zigzags `` too hard 0 to swallow . '' but a crucial point is how ford reacts when gm , the world 's largest auto maker , firms up its proposed deal with jaguar . at the moment , ford executives will say little beyond reiterating their desire to raise ford 's jaguar stake to about 15 % . gm is expected to inject roughly # 200 million -lrb- $ 316 million -rrb- by acquiring some jaguar shares , and then win jaguar management 's promise of an eventual 30 % stake . analysts believe 0 the car makers also will create joint ventures 0 to develop new executive models , doubling jaguar 's yearly output of 50,000 cars . jaguar shareholders would have to bless such a far-reaching accord . ford might challenge the proposal by offering a full bid if holders and the u.k. government agreed to drop the anti-takeover barrier early . `` i think 0 ford is going to come out with full guns blazing , '' mr. reitman says . `` ford wants -lcb- jaguar -rcb- very much . '' u.s. takeover-stock speculators , who may own between 20 % and 30 % of jaguar , could give ford enough votes to block the gm deal . gm might counterbid . then , mr . will says , `` 0 you get a bidding war between two very rich , very determined international companies . '' he believes 0 jaguar 's share price could zoom to between # 8 and # 10 -lrb- $ 12.60 to $ 15.80 -rrb- . `` there 's quite a bit of value left in the -lcb- jaguar -rcb- shares here even though they have run up '' lately , says 0 doug johnson , a fund manager for seattle-based safeco asset management . at the moment , he intends to keep the firm 's 180,000 jaguar shares . the risk is that jaguar 's share price could slump if gm 's agreement with jaguar effectively locks out its u.s. rival . `` ford 's appetite to attack -lcb- jaguar -rcb- could gradually wane over time , particularly if saab is a reasonably attractive proposition , '' says john lawson , an auto analyst at london 's nomura research institute . he thinks 0 saab-scania ab on friday will announce the sale of 50 % of its car division to ford ; the companies have been discussing closer cooperation for months . clifford stahl , president and chief investment officer of c-s capital advisors inc. , two weeks ago sold his cincinnati firm 's 107,100 jaguar adrs at about 10 each , making a tidy profit on a holding purchased at 4 7\/8 in early may . `` i thought 0 the probabilities of -lcb- a bidding war -rcb- happening were less , '' he says . of course , that was before ford 's latest move . jaguar -lrb- otc ; symbol : jagry -rrb- business : luxury cars year ended dec. 31 , 1988 : revenue : $ 1.71 billion net income : $ 44.9 million ; or 25 cents a share first half ended , june 30 , 1989 : net loss : $ 1.7 million vs. net income : $ 21.2 million ; or 12 cents a share averae daily trading volume : ordinary shares outstanding : 182.9 million note : all figures are translated into u.s. dollars based on current exchange rates .