the bush administration , trying to blunt growing demands from western europe for a relaxation of controls on exports to the soviet bloc , is questioning whether italy 's ing . c. olivetti & co. supplied militarily valuable technology to the soviets . most of the western european members of coordinating committee on multilateral export controls , the unofficial forum through which the u.s. and its allies align their export-control policies , are expected to argue for more liberal export rules at a meeting 0 to be held in paris oct. 25 and 26 . they plan to press specifically for a relaxation of rules governing exports of machine tools , computers and other high-technology products . but the bush administration says 0 it wants to see evidence that all cocom members are complying fully with existing export-control procedures before it will support further liberalization . to make its point , it is challenging the italian government to explain reports that olivetti may have supplied the soviet union with sophisticated computer-driven devices that could be used to build parts for combat aircraft . the london sunday times , which first reported the u.s. concerns , cited a u.s. intelligence report as the source of the allegations that olivetti exported $ 25 million in `` embargoed , state-of-the-art , flexible manufacturing systems to the soviet aviation industry . '' olivetti reportedly began shipping these tools in 1984 . a state department spokesman acknowledged that the u.s. is discussing the allegations with the italian government and cocom , but declined to confirm any details . italian president francesco cossiga promised a quick investigation into whether olivetti broke cocom rules . president bush called his attention to the matter during the italian leader 's visit here last week . olivetti has denied that it violated cocom rules , asserting that the reported shipments were properly licensed by the italian authorities . although the legality of these sales is still an open question , the disclosure could n't be better timed to support the position of export-control hawks in the pentagon and the intelligence community . `` it seems to me that a story like this breaks just before every important cocom meeting , '' said a washington lobbyist for a number of u.s. computer companies . the bush administration has sent conflicting signals about its export-control policies , reflecting unhealed divisions among several competing agencies . last summer , mr. bush moved the administration in the direction of gradual liberalization when he told a north atlantic treaty organization meeting that he would allow some exceptions to the cocom embargo of strategic goods . but more recently , the pentagon and the commerce department openly feuded over the extent to which cocom should liberalize exports of personal computers to the bloc . however , these agencies generally agree that the west should be cautious about any further liberalization . `` there 's no evidence that the soviet program 0 to -lrb- illegally -rrb- acquire western technology has diminished , '' said a state department spokesman .