brooks armored car service inc. never wanted to get into money laundering . but july 5 , a thunderstorm in wilmington , del. , caused shellpot creek to rise 15 feet , pouring 1.3 million gallons of water into basement vaults . the water destroyed about $ 75 million in currency and caked $ 4 million of coins with mud , rendering them dangerous to counting machines . the $ 75 million in paper money , although moldy , mildewy and smelly , was exchanged through the federal reserve bank of philadelphia without incident . but brooks was unable to reach a coin-cleaning agreement with the government . `` we kind of got caught between bureaucracies , '' says president william f. brooks jr . the u.s. mint would n't take the coin because it was n't mutilated , and the federal reserve bank accepts only clean coins , he says 0 . the philadelphia fed says 0 it is merely an `` agent '' for coins , responsible only for storage and distribution . `` we issue paper money ; we destroy paper money , '' says jane hinkle , a philadelphia fed spokeswoman . `` the coin is their problem . '' a mint official says 0 the agency offered to clean the coins for its `` bare-bones '' cost of $ 17,000 plus certain other expenses . but brooks declined , figuring that transporting the mucked up money to washington would cost the company thousands more . so brooks gave the dirty work to coin wrap inc. , which came up with an unusual solution . for eight hours a day for the past two weeks , in aggregates of as much as 27,000 pounds -lrb- equaling $ 20,000 in pennies -rrb- , coin wrap has been pouring money into a cement-mixing truck . a giant heater , working like a blowtorch , causes the mud to crust and burns off any wrappers . after clanging around for an hour or so , the shiny , hot money pours out of the cement chute , where a giant vacuum sucks away the dried mud and burnt wrappers . after cooling , the coins are then rewrapped . brooks expects to pay coin wrap a total of about $ 20,000 -- a cost that insurance wo n't cover . and while the job is half done , brooks is still bitter . in fact , there 's only one person involved who 's happy , and that 's floyd string , president of coin wrap and conceiver of the cement-truck solution . not only did his company find $ 20,000 worth of work , but when the approach was suggested , mr. string says 0 , brooks officials `` did n't laugh at me or anything .