national convenience stores inc. , trying to shake the doldrums in the convenience-store business , said 0 it will rearrange the merchandise in all of its stores in the next 18 months to cater better to the neighborhoods around its stores . as part of the plan , the houston-based company 's 1,100 stop 'n go stores will be refocused to target black , hispanic , upscale or core middle-class customers . stores in upper-income neighborhoods , for instance , will carry high-priced wines , publications such as vanity fair , gourmet pasta sauces , oat bran cereals and weight watchers and pritikin products . stores in hispanic areas will stock an assortment of spanish-language magazines , mexican cooking items and candies . stores in the company 's core middle-class market will get more frozen and quick-to-prepare foods and a greater selection of bottled water . v.h. van horn , national convenience president and chief executive officer , said 0 the move reflects the company 's realization that the industry 's poor performance stems from its failure to give customers what they want -- rather than from increasing competition from gasoline stations and 24-hour grocery stores . `` convenience store merchandise has not kept pace with current trends in consumer preferences , '' he said in a speech at the company 's annual shareholders meeting . analysts and competitors said 0 the move reflects a growing need by the stores to expand their customer base beyond the traditional blue-collar worker who pops into a convenience store for a sandwich , cigarettes , soda or beer . `` there are an increasing number of people out there who are time-poor , '' said chris vroom , retail analyst with alex . brown & sons of baltimore . `` those are primarily white-collar workers , a customer segment that has historically proved elusive for convenience stores . '' national convenience 's move is likely to be echoed by other chains , though analysts note that southland corp. , owner of 7-eleven stores , and circle k corp. are too debt-heavy to roll out such an extensive effort . still , southland said that its franchisees have been targeting their merchandise to their customers for years , and that the company has begun to follow suit . for instance , southland has expanded its bottled water selection in some stores and added fresh sandwiches in some outlets . several months ago , it also added black health and beauty aids displays to many stores , a spokeswoman said 0 . `` we certainly see an increasing trend toward that , '' she added . national convenience said 0 it has tested its new merchandise mix in 100 stores , with favorable results . analysts said 0 the company 's effort will be helped by its decision last year to put point-of-sale scanners in 200 stores , allowing national convenience to quickly track items that are selling and those that are n't . to promote its new strategy , national convenience said 0 it plans to spend about $ 12 million on advertising for the year ending june 30 , up from about $ 10 million in fiscal 1989 .