a # 320 million -lrb- $ 508 million -rrb- british airways plc rights issue flopped badly -- the victim of recent market turbulence and the collapse of the buy-out bid for united airlines ' parent , ual corp . the united kingdom carrier had planned the issue to help finance its $ 750 million purchase of a 15 % stake in ual . but british airways withdrew from the ual labor-management buy-out plan last friday , after the group failed to get bank financing for its $ 6.79 billion buy-out . british airways said 0 its shareholders accepted only 6.3 % of the convertible capital bonds , but that the rest of the issue will be taken up by underwriters . analysts said 0 that 6.3 % level marked the poorest showing for any major british rights issue since the 1987 global stock market crash . `` it is close to being a record undersubscription , '' said bob bucknell , an analyst with london broker smith new court securities . `` fund managers do n't like to have rights issues that do n't have an obvious reason . the obvious reason was -lrb- for british air -rrb- to buy a stake in united airlines . '' in a statement , british air chairman lord king said 0 the company was `` obviously disappointed that the issue was not taken up , but it would have been unreasonable to expect a better result given the volatility of the stock market since the launch of the issue . '' but except for the embarrassment , british air will emerge relatively unscathed from the flopped issue . underwriters led by lazard brothers & co. will pick up the rest of the airline 's offer of four convertible capital bonds for every nine common shares . lazard and other primary underwriters have reduced or eliminated their exposure by sub-underwriting the issue among u.k. institutional investors . `` the -lrb- paper -rrb- loss here is very small '' for these sub-underwriters , observed 0 john nelson , a lazard managing director . in any case , he added 0 , `` most institutions probably wo n't sell '' the bonds . and instead of buying the ual stake , the u.k. carrier will be able to reduce its high debt level and build an acquisition war chest . `` from a cash flow point of view , british airways is better off not being in united airlines in the short term , '' said andy chambers , an analyst at nomura research institute in london . added another u.k. analyst : `` it gives them some cash in the back pocket for when they want to do something . '' for instance , british air is continuing to negotiate with klm royal dutch airlines about each acquiring a 20 % stake in sabena world airlines , the air transport subsidiary of the belgian national airline . a definitive agreement had been expected by the end of july . the failed rights issue also should have a modest impact on british air shares . the airline 's share price already is far below the 210 pence -lrb- $ 3.33 -rrb- level seen after the company announced the rights issue in late september . in late trading on london 's stock exchange yesterday , the shares were off three pence at 194 pence . and because british air is issuing convertible bonds rather than ordinary shares , the share price wo n't be directly hurt by any surplus left with underwriters after they try to sell the issue in the open market . but british air 's withdrawal from the ual buy-out could have further repercussions . some analysts speculated yesterday that the move has set off a board room split , which may lead to the resignation of sir colin marshall , the carrier 's chief executive officer . `` the stories are rubbish , '' a british air spokesman said . `` there is no difference of opinion between -lrb- chairman -rrb- lord king and sir colin on any aspect of company policy .