the 1986 tax reform act has nearly eliminated the number of large , profitable corporations that do n't pay federal income tax , according to citizens for tax justice , a nonprofit , labor-funded research and lobbying group . in a study of 250 of the nation 's richest companies , the group found that only seven managed to avoid paying federal income taxes last year compared with 40 in 1986 , the last year 0 the old tax rules were in effect , and 16 in 1987 , when some of the new tax provisions went into effect . moreover , 41 companies that paid no federal income tax from 1981 through 1985 -- despite billions of dollars of profits -- ended up paying an average of 27.9 % of their income in federal taxes in 1988 . the report , released yesterday , comes as congress is considering a number of special tax breaks only three years after the sweeping tax-revision legislation abolished or curtailed many loopholes . in the corporate realm , the 1986 law abolished the investment-tax credit , scaled back use of an accounting method that allowed large contractors to defer taxes until a project was completed and strengthened the so-called alternative minimum tax , a levy 0 to ensure 0 all money-making businesses pay some federal tax . the combination of lower rates and fewer loopholes has meant that the so-called average effective tax rate -- the rate actually paid -- of the 250 corporations surveyed reached 26.5 % in 1988 , compared with 14.3 % in the years from 1981 through 1985 , according to the study . in addition , corporations are now shouldering a bigger share of the tax burden , as the authors of the 1986 law hoped . corporate taxes paid for almost 12 % of federal spending in 1988 -- excluding social security -- compared with less than 8 % in the first half of the 1980s , the study found . `` tax reform is working , '' the study said . `` under the new tax-reform law , the days of widespread , wholesale corporate tax avoidance have come to an end . '' still , kroger co. , pinnacle west capital corp. , csx corp. , illinois power co. , media general inc. , santa fe southern pacific corp. and gulf states utilities co. , did n't pay any federal income tax last year although they garnered a total of $ 1.2 billion in profits , the group said . in fact , six of those companies received refunds , which totaled $ 120 million . the lobbying group used publicly available information to calculate each company 's domestic profits and its federal income tax payments . this is the fifth year 0 citizens for tax justice has released a study on corporate tax bills . earlier reports , which revealed that as many as 73 companies were avoiding income tax legally , have been credited with helping galvanize efforts to overhaul the tax code . but even though companies are paying more taxes , many are still paying less than the statutory rate , the report said 0 . and 45 companies paid effective tax rates of below 10 % of their income . `` while the overall picture is very encouraging , significant corporate tax avoidance continues , '' the study said . glenn hall contributed to this article .