eastern airlines ' creditors committee backed off a move 0 to come up with its own alternative proposals to the carrier 's bankruptcy reorganization plans , according to sources familiar with the committee . in a meeting in new york yesterday , the committee put on hold instructions 0 it gave two weeks ago to its experts to explore other options for eastern 's future , the sources said 0 . the consultants had been working to finish a report this week . that means 0 eastern , a unit of texas air corp. of houston , can go forward with its pitch for creditor approval as early as today , when it is expected to deliver a revised reorganization plan to the committee . the committee intends to meet next week to make a recommendation on the new plan . in another development yesterday , creditors were told that $ 40 million 0 they had expected to become available for implementing a reorganization may not materialize , according to one source . texas air has run into difficulty reselling about $ 20 million of debt securities because of problems in the junk bond market , the person said 0 . and plans to raise another $ 20 million through changes to an insurance policy have hit a snag , the source said 0 . an eastern spokesman said `` the $ 40 million will have no effect whatsoever on the asset structure of eastern 's plan . forty million in the total scheme of things is not that significant . '' it is unclear what caused the creditors to do an about-face on exploring alternatives to eastern 's new reorganization plan . however , since eastern first filed for chapter 11 protection march 9 , it has consistently promised to pay creditors 100 cents on the dollar . because the carrier is still pledging to do that , some committee members successfully argued that there 's little reason yet 0 to explore a different plan , according to one person familiar with the creditors ' position . earlier this month the accounting firm of ernst & young and the securities firm of goldman , sachs & co. , the experts hired by the creditors , contended that eastern would have difficulty meeting earnings targets 0 the airline was projecting . ernst & young said 0 eastern 's plan would miss projections by $ 100 million . goldman said 0 eastern would miss the same mark by at least $ 120 million . the consultants maintained 0 eastern would n't generate the cash 0 it needs and would have to issue new debt to meet its targets under the plan . eastern at the time disputed those assessments and called the experts ' report `` completely off base . '' yesterday , joel zweibel , an attorney for eastern 's creditors committee , declined to comment on whether the experts had ever been instructed to look at other choices and whether they now were asked not to . he said only that the committee has not yet taken any position on eastern 's reorganization plan and that the two sides were still negotiating . `` in every case , people would like to see a consentual plan , '' he said . eastern and its creditors agreed in july on a reorganization plan that called for the carrier to sell off $ 1.8 billion in assets and to emerge from chapter 11 status in late 1989 at two-thirds its former size . eastern eventually decided not to sell off a major chunk , its south american routes , which were valued at $ 400 million . such a change meant 0 the reorganization plan 0 the creditors had agreed on was no longer valid , and the two sides had to begin negotiating again . eastern has publicly stated 0 it is exceeding its goals for getting back into operation and has predicted 0 it would emerge from chapter 11 proceedings early next year , operating more flights than it originally had scheduled .