eastman kodak co. , seeking to position itself in the potentially huge high-definition television market , unveiled a converter that can transform conventional motion-picture film into high-definition video . the move also helps the rochester , n.y. , photographic giant ensure that its motion-picture film business -- for which it holds a virtual monopoly , supplying every hollywood movie company -- is n't made obsolete by the upstart hdtv business . while the prototype converter is costly , it 's being lauded by the infant hdtv industry as a way of increasing the number of high-quality shows that can be seen on the new medium . `` the industry has been waiting with bated breath for the machines to come along , '' says david niles , president of eleven twenty five productions inc. , a new york pioneer in high-definition programming . he notes that industry executives have until now worried that they would face a severe shortage of programs once consumers begin replacing their tv sets with hdtvs . japanese electronic giants , such as sony corp. and hitachi ltd. , have focused almost entirely on hdtv hardware , and virtually ignored software or programs shot in high-definition . and only a handful of small u.s. companies are engaged in high-definition software development . it 's estimated that just about 250 hours of hd programming is currently available for airing . kodak says 0 its new ccd hdtv converter will help alleviate the problem by allowing programmers and broadcasters to convert movies and television programs shot in 35mm motion-picture film into high-definition video . consumers will be able to switch on their hdtv sets and get all the viewing benefits 0 the high-tech medium offers . otherwise , they 'd be watching programs that are no different in quality from what they currently view on color tvs . it would be like `` watching a black and white movie on a color tv set , '' says 0 malcolm g. saull , chairman of the film and video department at the rochester institute of technology . the new converters are `` a critical link between film and the television domain , '' says 0 joerg d. agin , vice president and general manager of kodak 's motion picture and audiovisual products division . kodak wo n't disclose the cost or when its converter will be on the market , but it 's estimated 0 the machine may be available within two years . a similar machine already on the market , made by rank sintel ltd. , a unit of rank organisation , costs about $ 500,000 . and the potential market is tremendous , industry experts say 0 . if hdtv takes off in the u.s. , there will be demand for some 4,000 to 5,000 hdtv converters , known in the industry as telecines . demand will come first from programming production companies and then from television stations . `` the converter is head and shoulders above anything else 0 i 've seen , '' says richard j. stumpf , vice president - engineering and development at mca inc. 's universal city studios . and mr. niles , the program producer , contends that kodak 's move is `` a sound marketing decision . they ca n't afford to stay out of hdtv . '' indeed , the stakes are high . the u.s. electronics industry estimates that the hdtv market will total about $ 150 billion over the next two decades , with an additional $ 400 billion expected to go for related products . hdtvs break down images into more than 1,100 lines , compared with 525 for today 's televisions , providing considerably sharper detail . and the sets are wider , resembling the dimensions of a movie screen . but the financial rewards are n't expected soon , nor are they guaranteed . experts estimate 0 the first sets of hdtvs wo n't be available for another five to 10 years , and will probably retail for more than $ 3,000 each in today 's dollars . some critics say 0 they wo n't be quickly embraced by consumers because of the high price . nevertheless , kodak could n't risk letting hdtv turn its motion-picture film business into a dinosaur . `` kodak understands 0 hdtv is where everybody is going , '' says rit 's mr. spaull .