robert h. knight 's oct. 5 editorial-page article bemoaning violence in comedy movies -lrb- `` hollywood , you slay me '' -rrb- is interesting , but somewhat off-base . as a fan of older movies from the 1920s on , i do not find 0 modern comedies contain violence , sex and foul language to any greater degree than other recent movies . older movies have plenty of violence , though it is portrayed in keeping with the more restrictive social conventions of the time . for example , one of my favorite movies is the 1949 british comedy `` kind hearts and coronets , '' in which the entire comedy is based on actor dennis price 's murdering eight titled relatives -lrb- all played by alec guinness -rrb- because they snubbed his mother and stand in the way of his acquiring the family title . similarly , one of the most popular comedy genres of the 1930s and '40s was the `` murder mystery\/comedy . '' the `` thin man '' series of movies , as well as many others , based their entire comedic appeal on the star detectives ' witty quips and puns as other characters in the movies were murdered . further , i think 0 mr. knight made a poor choice in picking `` a fish called wanda '' as an example of the deplorable state of modern comedy movies . the specific scene 0 he mentions in which pet dogs are crushed is somewhat reminiscent of the continual plights that befall the coyote in the old warner bros . `` road runner '' cartoons . there is no slow-motion close-up , blood-and-guts portrayal of the animal 's demise . keep in mind that this is the same movie in which a character is flattened by a steamroller only to pop right back up and peer in the window of a boeing 747 -- from the outside -- as it takes off . i will be the first 0 to agree that there is much 0 to be found wrong with modern movie making . many modern scriptwriters seem to be incapable of writing drama , or anything else , without foul-mouthed cursing . sex and violence are routinely included even when they are irrelevant to the script , and high-tech special effects are continually substituted for good plot and character development . in short , we have a movie and television industry that is either incapable or petrified of making a movie unless it carries a pg-13 or r rating . hence copious amounts of gratuitous sex , violence and gutter language are included as a crutch . however , these faults are not the exclusive property of modern comedies , and i believe 0 mr. knight errs when he attempts to link this modern phenomenon too closely to a single category of movie making . michael smith