congress sent to president bush an $ 8.5 billion military construction bill that cuts spending for new installations by 16 % while revamping the pentagon budget to move more than $ 450 million from foreign bases to home-state projects . the fiscal 1990 measure builds on a pattern set earlier this year by house and senate defense authorizing committees , and -- at a time of retrenchment for the military and concern about the u.s. 's standing in the world economy -- overseas spending is most vulnerable . total pentagon requests for installations in west germany , japan , south korea , the united kingdom and the philippines , for example , are cut by almost two-thirds , while lawmakers added to the military budget for construction in all but a dozen states at home . the result is that instead of the pentagon 's proposed split of 60-40 between domestic and foreign bases , the reduced funding is distributed by a ratio of approximately 70-30 . the extra margin for bases in the u.s. enhances the power of the appropriations committees ; meanwhile , lawmakers used their positions to garner as much as six times what the pentagon had requested for their individual states . house appropriations committee chairman jamie whitten -lrb- d. , miss . -rrb- helped secure $ 49.7 million for his state , or more than double the pentagon 's budget . west virginia , home of senate appropriations committee chairman robert byrd , would receive $ 21.5 million -- four times the military 's request . tennessee and north carolina , home states of the two democratic chairmen of the house and senate military construction subcommittees , receive $ 243.2 million , or 25 % above the pentagon 's request . though spending for iowa and oregon was far less , their increases above pentagon requests -- 640 % and 430 % , respectively -- were much greater because of the influence of republicans at critical junctures . the swift passage of the bill , which cleared the senate and house on simple voice votes last week , contrasts with the problems still facing a more cumbersome $ 66.8 billion measure funding housing , environmental , space and veterans programs . by an 84-6 margin , the senate approved the bulk of the spending friday , but the bill was then sent back to the house to resolve the question of how to address budget limits on credit allocations for the federal housing administration . the house democratic leadership could seek to waive these restrictions , but the underlying bill is already under attack for excesses elsewhere . appropriations committees have used an assortment of devices to disguise as much as $ 1 billion in spending , and as critics have awakened to these devices , the bill can seem like a wounded caribou trying to make it past ice and wolves to reach safer winter grazing . much of the excess spending will be pushed into fiscal 1991 , and in some cases is temporarily parked in slow-spending accounts in anticipation of being transferred to faster-spending areas after the budget scorekeeping is completed . for example , a house-senate conference ostensibly increased the national aeronautics and space administration budget for construction of facilities to nearly $ 592 million , or more than $ 200 million above what either chamber had previously approved . part of the increase would provide $ 90 million toward ensuring construction of a costly solid rocket-motor facility in mr. whitten 's mississippi . but as much as $ 177 million , or nearly 30 % of the account , is marked for potential transfers to research , management and flight accounts that are spent out at a faster clip . the bill 's managers face criticism , too , for the unusual number of conditions openly imposed on where funds will be spent . conservatives , embarrassed by republican influence-peddling scandals at the department of housing and urban development , have used the issue in an effort to shift blame onto a democratic-controlled congress . hud secretary jack kemp backed an unsuccessful effort to strike such language last week , but received little support from the white house budget office , which wants to protect space-station funding in the bill and has tended to turn its eyes from pork-barrel amendments . within discretionary funds for community development grants , more than $ 3.7 million is allocated to six projects in michigan , home state of a subcommittee chairman , rep. bob traxler . house speaker thomas foley won $ 510,000 for a project in his district in washington state , and $ 1.3 million , earmarked by sen. daniel inouye , amounts to a business subsidy under the title `` hawaiian sugar mills job retention . '' the powerful democrat had first wanted to add language relaxing environmental restrictions on two mills on the hamakua coast that are threatening to close . when this plan met resistance , it was agreed instead to take money from hud to subsidize needed improvements in two settling ponds for the mills , which employ an estimated 1,500 workers , according to mr. inouye 's office .