maxicare health plans inc. , operating under chapter 11 bankrupty-law protection , outlined terms of its reorganization plan that calls for creditors and shareholders to receive at least $ 78.8 million in cash and $ 67 million face amount of 10-year , 13.5 % notes . the plan , outlined in a filing with the securities and exchange commission , also calls for creditors and shareholders to receive common stock and warrants in the new company . the health-maintenance concern said 0 it reached the agreement with its court-appointed creditors ' committees sept. 28 , and intends to submit the plan to the bankruptcy court in november . maxicare , which filed for bankruptcy protection march 16 , has total debt of $ 750 million . the company has promptly paid all its expenses and obligations since march 16 , a maxicare spokesman said 0 . general unsecured creditors of maxicare 's continuing operations initially will receive $ 47 million in cash , $ 35 million face amount of senior notes , and 49 % of the new company 's stock . those creditors , whose claims are estimated at about $ 200 million , include doctors and hospitals . general unsecured creditors of maxicare 's discontinued operations , whose claims total $ 110 million , initially will receive $ 17.8 million in cash and $ 10 million in senior notes . maxicare 's public shareholders will receive 2 % of the new company 's stock and warrants entitling them to acquire as much as an additional 5 % of the stock on a fully-diluted basis . general unsecured creditors of the parent holding company initially will receive $ 14 million in cash , $ 22 million face amount of senior notes and 49 % of the new company 's stock . that group includes banks and bondholders , who have claims of $ 150 million and $ 350 million respectively . maxicare also will guarantee that the banks will realize at least $ 7 million on certain notes pledged to them . maxicare said 0 the plan stipulates that enrollees in the company 's health plans will have valid claims covered in full . those claims , along with priority employee claims , administrative claims , priority tax claims and administrative convenience claims , are expected to total about $ 16 million . the plan is subject to approval by the bankruptcy court and others . the spokesman said 0 maxicare hopes to complete the reorganization by early 1990 .