it never ceases to amaze me how the business world continues to trivialize the world 's environmental problems -lrb- `` is science , or private gain , driving ozone policy ? '' by george melloan , business world , oct. 24 -rrb- . to suggest that a 10 % drop in ozone by the middle of the next century would be negligible is irresponsible and shortsighted . consider the fact that a mere 2 % drop in ozone would increase birth defects and mutations by allowing solar radiation to alter the dna structure . even a small reduction is unacceptable and to suggest otherwise is penny-wise and pound-foolish . the reason 0 environmentalists `` do n't mind seeing new crises arise '' is because there are new crises . crises larger and more dangerous to the quality of life than they were 10 years ago . if you are doubtful , consider for a moment that the pomton lakes reservoirs in northern new jersey , which supply the tristate area with drinking water , are riddled with toxic pcbs . this is a fact and not the product of some environmental doomsayer or a group 's ploy to create a market . it 's time 0 business leaders and the general public learn that mankind does not rule over this natural environment but is rather the integral , symbiotic player within nature 's workings . mark t. kuiper jersey city , n.j . mr. melloan 's column was right on the money , but i wish 0 it could have gone one step further . as an employee of a major refrigerator and freezer manufacturer , i have been heavily involved in dealing with the political manifestations of the rowland-molina theory -lrb- named after the researchers who found in 1974 that chlorofluorocarbons contributed to the depletion of ozone in the earth 's atmosphere -rrb- and the montreal protocol . an important part of my effort has been to understand the science so i can explain it to corporate colleagues facing major changes in product design . in my research , i have found a paper by joseph scotto of the national cancer institute and several colleagues reporting an 11-year decrease in uv-b radiation at eight u.s. measurement sites . our concern for the ozone layer , of course , grows out of the potential for increasing uv-b radiation , which could damage flora and fauna . the last of the measurements reported was in 1985 , but recent conversations with mr. scotto indicated that he knew of no recent changes in the trend . i understand , but have n't yet verified , that there are studies by norwegians , russians and the max planck institute that show either unchanging or declining uv-b at the surface . to me , this calls into question the validity of the rowland-molina theory and hence the whole chlorofluorocarbons replacement effort . this , in turn , threatens the massive vested interests of which you have written . my questions on this subject at a recent meeting at the world resources institute with representatives of the national resource development commission , the environmental protection agency , friends of the earth , etc. were greeted with derision and some mumbled comments about that report being discredited . when i expressed amazement that no one was undertaking a more current and credible uv-b study , i was urged to get back to the agenda topic , which was , ironically , a schedule for getting rid of hcfcs , the so-called soft cfcs that are such an important part of the cfc substitution scenario . subsequently , i have learned that a private group , of which du pont is a part , is funding a modest program to continue data gathering at the scotto report stations as well as to develop more sophisticated uvb measuring instruments . but this is almost an underground activity . to my knowledge , no government entities , including the epa , are pursuing uv-b measurements . the topic never comes up in ozonedepletion `` establishment '' meetings , of which i have attended many . it seems to me that such measurements are a vital part of any intellectually honest evaluation of the threat posed by cfcs . while recognizing that professional environmentalists may feel threatened , i intend to urge that uv-b be monitored whenever i can . frederick h. hallett vice president industry and government relations white consolidated industries inc . washington the relationship between surface release of cfcs and global stratospheric ozone loss was identified back in 1974 . although , like all scientific theories , it had its initial opponents , few experts question the connection now . the discovery of the ozone `` hole '' over antarctica and the results of ground-based and high-altitude aircraft experiments conducted over the past several years serve as evidence that ozone depletion is related to cfc concentrations . in the september issue of scientific american , thomas e. graedel , distinguished member of the technical staff at at&t bell laboratories , and paul j. crutzen , director of the air chemistry division of the max planck institute for chemistry in mainz , west germany , wrote , `` it is now quite evident that chlorofluorocarbons , particularly cfc-11 and cfc-12 are the major culprits responsible for ozone depletion . '' mr. melloan quotes peter teagan and invokes the name of arthur d. little inc. to support his statement . however , unlike messrs. graedel and crutzen , who are both pioneers in the study of atmospheric chemistry , mr. teagan has no special expertise in the area . he is a mechanical engineer , not an atmospheric chemist . it is insulting and demeaning to say that scientists `` needed new crises to generate new grants and contracts '' and that environmental groups need them to stay in business . solving the global environmental problems 0 we all face will require an unprecedented level of cooperation and communication among industry , policy makers and the scientific community world-wide . karen fine coburn publisher global environmental change report arlington , mass .