prime minister rajiv gandhi set a date next month for general elections that some analysts say 0 could cost him and his ruling congress -lrb- i -rrb- party control of the government . other analysts say 0 the indian leader could retain control with a slim majority or be forced to rule as the dominant partner in a coalition with other parties . elections in this large , diverse and passionate nation are always hard 0 to predict . much depends on the opposition , a loose group of regional and ideological parties led by former gandhi cabinet minister vishwanath pratap singh . the biggest certainty is that the elections will be a vote for or against mr. gandhi and his five years in power -- five years of ups and downs , promises and disappointments and wide fluctuations in popularity . yesterday , four days after an unusual parliamentary defeat for the ruling party , mr. gandhi called elections for the lower house of parliament on nov. 22 and 24 . the elections will be held in different states on one of the two days . -lrb- the lower house 's five-year term expires in january ; the parliament 's upper house is appointed . -rrb- the elections will be a rigorous test for the 45-year-old prime minister and congress -lrb- i -rrb- , which in various forms has ruled for 40 of india 's 42 years of independence . after a landslide win in 1984 in polls held after the assassination of his mother , indira gandhi , mr. gandhi saw his popularity begin a roller coaster ride . his early promises to make india a modern nation remain bogged down in bloated bureaucracy . his pledge to clean up local administration and indian politics , including his own party , went unfulfilled . his `` mr. clean '' image was muddied by an arms-kickback scandal , which will be a major campaign issue . some analysts predict that disappointment in mr. gandhi 's spent pledge to reduce corruption and heavy-handed local government will crest at the polls . `` there 's a wide feeling of indignation across the country , '' says bhabani sen gupta of the center for policy research , in new delhi . `` i think 0 the people will be judging the regime by a petty policeman , by a corrupt revenue collector . this could be a big protest against an administrative failure . '' even if the congress -lrb- i -rrb- retains control of the government , mr. gandhi 's ability to push through major initiatives might be hobbled by a thinner majority . economic analysts call his trail-blazing liberalization of the indian economy incomplete , and many are hoping for major new liberalizations if he is returned firmly to power . the lok sabha , or lower house of parliament , has 542 elected and two appointed seats . in 1984 , the congress -lrb- i -rrb- captured 405 seats , the largest victory in the history of indian democracy . the landslide was fueled by panic that prevailed in india at the time . mrs. gandhi had been assassinated by separatist sikhs , and many indians feared 0 their country might split apart . in the previous three general elections , similar national issues clinched the vote . in 1971 , the congress party won after india 's victory in the bangladesh war . in 1977 , mrs. gandhi was thrown out of office after her 19-month emergency rule , and in 1980 , after her successors made a mess of their three years in power , she was restored to office . most political analysts say that if mr. gandhi 's opposition unites to field single candidates in most precincts , the congress -lrb- i -rrb- will lose big . but if the opposition remains fractured , the congress -lrb- i -rrb- could win a small majority , or lead a coalition government . chimanbhai mehta , a parliamentarian and former gandhi ally , predicts 0 congress -lrb- i -rrb- will win only 150 seats , a quarter of the house , if the opposition fields single candidates in 80 % of the races . analysts say 0 the opposition will struggle this week to unite , and its success will be clear only when it announces its final list of parliamentary candidates . the arms-kickback scandal is likely to be one of the big talking points in the campaign , but it 's unclear how it is viewed by average indian voters . in 1986 , india signed a $ 1.4 billion contract with ab bofors , a unit of nobel industries sweden ab , to purchase 400 artillery pieces . the contract was negotiated by the countries ' two prime ministers , and was supposed to be free of commissions or agents ' costs . in april 1987 , evidence surfaced that commissions were paid . the opposition charged that the money was used to bribe indian government officials , an allegation denied by mr. gandhi 's administration . but many of his statements on the issue in parliament subsequently were proven wrong by documentary evidence . the scandal has faded and flared , but recent disclosures propelled it back onto the front pages , and that has helped galvanize the opposition , which last week blocked passage of two constitutional amendment bills . it was the first time in 20 years that such government bills were defeated . in a country where a bribe is needed to get a phone , a job , and even into a school , the name bofors has become a potent rallying cry against the government . that illustrates the kind of disappointment 0 many indians feel toward mr. gandhi , whom they zestfully elected and enthusiastically supported in his first two years in power . his term has produced no spectacular failures in politics , in the economy or on the military front , and has chalked up some successes . but the average indian had tremendous hope in the youthful leader and his promise to make both government and the ruling party more effective and less corrupt . his failures in those two areas deeply , and sometimes bitterly , disappointed many indians . `` we do n't like the congress -lrb- i -rrb- , '' says sooraji jath , a farmer in the western state of gujarat . `` the congress government is taking the farmers ' bread and not giving us any support . when there are well problems , light problems , road problems , the government tells us to forget it . '' the greatest thing going for mr. gandhi and the congress -lrb- i -rrb- party is the poor reputation of the opposition . even if it unites for the elections , its coherence is likely to be temporary . when the congress -lrb- i -rrb- lost the 1977 election , following mrs. gandhi 's hated emergency rule , a similar coalition took power and then disintegrated . many indians fear a repeat of that experience . march 24 , 1986 : ab bofors , a unit of nobel industries sweden ab , enters into a $ 1.4 billion contract with india 's defense ministry to supply 400 bofors fh-77b 155-mm field howitzer guns . in 1985 , prime minister rajiv gandhi , in his talks with then swedish prime minister olof palme , imposed the condition that the contract have no middlemen . april 16 , 1987 : swedish national radio reports that about $ 40 million -- nearly 3 % of the total contract -- was paid by bofors as commissions to middlemen . june 1 , 1987 : sweden 's national audit bureau releases its report confirming payment of about $ 40 million to unidentified indians . the report says that investigations were severely hampered by lack of cooperation from bofors . bofors says 0 it ca n't disclose the names of the middlemen because it would jeopardize industrial confidentiality . a portion of the report containing names of the middlemen is withheld by officials 0 citing bank secrecy requirements . aug. 6 , 1987 : prime minister gandhi tells the indian parliament , `` ... neither i nor any member of my family has received any consideration in these transactions . that is the truth . '' aug. 26 , 1987 : bofors admits payments of $ 41 million to middlemen . april 22 , 1988 : the hindu newspaper publishes facsimiles of bank documents for foreign-exchange remittances and letters between bofors and certain private companies related to the sale of the guns to india . april 26 , 1988 : a parliamentary investigative committee dominated by the congress -lrb- i -rrb- party concludes that there were no middlemen in the deal and no payment to any indian individual or company . july 18 , 1989 : the comptroller and auditor-general of india reports serious lapses in the government 's technical and financial evaluation of the bofors deal . sept. 15 , 1989 : retired army chief of staff krishnaswami sundarji discloses in an interview that he suggested in may 1987 that the government cancel the bofors contract . according to gen. sundarji , that would have forced bofors to disclose the names of the middlemen who received kickbacks from the company . his recommendation was rejected by the government . oct. 9. 1989 : the hindu newspaper publishes the withheld portion of the swedish national audit bureau 's report . the disclosures state that commissions were paid by bofors to an indian agent of the arms company .