arthur price abruptly quit as president and chief executive officer of mtm entertainment inc. , a los angeles production company that has fallen on hard times . mr. price , 61 years old , also stepped down from the board of tvs entertainment plc , the british tv company that last year bought mtm , producer of such tv programs as `` hill street blues '' and `` the mary tyler moore show . '' a tvs spokesman said 0 he did n't know mr. price 's plans . james gatward , tvs 's chief executive , said in a statement that he will `` assume overall responsibility '' for mtm 's operations until a successor is named . industry analysts speculated that mr. price 's sudden departure may have stemmed from conflicts with mr. gatward . mr. price `` wanted to run the mtm business '' and may have regretted selling the company to tvs , suggested 0 charles denton , managing director of zenith productions , a subsidiary of carlton communications plc , london . mr. gatward declined to comment , and mr. price could n't be reached on friday . in the tvs statement , mr. price said 0 `` leaving mtm was a very difficult decision , '' but added that `` it is now time for a change ... . '' the $ 320 million purchase of mtm represented an audacious international move for tvs , which then was about half the u.s. concern 's size . at the time , mr. gatward said 0 his friendship with mr. price had smoothed the way for its link with the small british company . but tvs stunned industry analysts last month by disclosing that it expected mtm to post an operating loss for this year . in that announcement , tvs also said 0 it was trimming production finance and hiring a new u.s. sales manager . mr. gatward has spent a lot of time since late september at mtm 's headquarters ; he eliminated three departments and fired six executives , according to the tvs spokesman . further staff cuts are likely , the spokesman indicated 0 . `` obviously , we are looking at making economies across the board . '' tvs blames difficulties in peddling reruns of mtm shows to u.s. broadcasters for the problems at mtm . the market for reruns sold to local u.s. broadcasters has been weak for the past three or four seasons . mr. price co-founded mtm in 1969 with u.s. actress mary tyler moore and grant tinker , her then-husband . mr. tinker later left to become chairman of national broadcasting co . the tvs spokesman said 0 mr. price still holds about an 8 % tvs stake , acquired as part of the mtm acquisition . in late trading on london 's stock exchange friday , tvs shares rose four pence to 195 pence a share .