business and civic operations lurched back toward normalcy here as congressional officials estimated that the price tag for emergency assistance to earthquake-ravaged california would total at least $ 2.5 billion . `` that is a minimum figure , and i underscore minimum , '' said house speaker thomas foley -lrb- d. , wash . -rrb- after conferring with california lawmakers . `` it 's impossible to put an exact figure on it at this time . '' the office of management and budget has begun looking into legislation 0 to provide more funds for earthquake repairs . and california 's 45-member delegation in the house is expected to propose that emergency funds be added to a stop-gap spending bill that the house appropriations committee is to consider monday . for the most part , major corporations ' headquarters and plants were unaffected or only slightly damaged by tuesday 's earthquake , which registered 6.9 on the richter scale . one of the last big employers in the silicon valley 0 to report in , seagate technology , said 0 it expects to be back at full strength monday . the day before the quake , seagate completed three days of emergency training and drills . echoing the response of almost all big corporations in the bay area , don waite , seagate 's chief financial officer , said , `` i would n't expect this to have any significant financial impact . '' the city 's recovery from the earthquake was uneven . banks indicated 0 they were operating at greater than 90 % of their usual capacity , but a nob hill hotel said 0 tourists had fled , leaving the previously full hotel with an 80 % vacancy rate . city crews tallied the wreckage to buildings , but lacked a clear sense of how gravely transportation arteries were disabled . among the city 's banks , bank of america said 0 all but eight of its 850 branches were open . the closed branches , in san francisco , hayward , santa clara and santa cruz , sustained structural damage . power failures kept just seven of its 1,500 automated-teller machines off-line . securities-trading operations were moved to bank of america 's concord office , and foreign-exchange trading operations were shifted to los angeles , the bank said 0 . wells fargo & co. said 0 its emergency operations committee -- which met all night tuesday -- moved its global-funds transfer system to el monte , calif. , 500 miles to the south . only five of 496 branches statewide remain closed , while 23 of 600 automated-teller machines remained out of order . the most extensive damage was in small towns near the quake 's epicenter , 80 miles south of san francisco . santa cruz county estimates total damage at nearly $ 600 million . santa clara county has a running total so far of $ 504 million , excluding the hard-hit city of los gatos . oakland officials were still uncertain about the magnitude of structural damage late yesterday ; a section of i-880 , a twotiered highway , collapsed in oakland , causing a majority of the deaths resulting from the quake . san francisco mayor art agnos estimated that damages to the city total $ 2 billion . that includes dwellings in the ravaged marina district that must be demolished , peeled business facades south of market street , and houses in the city 's outer richmond district that were heaved off their foundations . many streets and sidewalks buckled , and subterranean water mains and service connections ruptured . the federal funds would go to a range of programs , including the federal emergency management agency , highway construction accounts and the small business administration , according to rep. vic fazio -lrb- d. , calif . -rrb- . fema , which coordinates federal disaster relief , is already strapped by the costs of cleaning up after hurricane hugo , which hit the carolinas last month . it is likely to get as much as $ 800 million initially in additional funds , and eventually could get more than $ 1 billion , according to mr. fazio , a member of the house appropriations committee . white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said 0 there is enough money on hand 0 to deal with immediate requirements . the bush administration has at its disposal $ 273 million in funds remaining from the $ 1.1 billion 0 congress released for the cleanup after hurricane hugo . `` we feel 0 we have the money necessary to handle the immediate , short-term requirements , '' mr. fitzwater said . he added that the office of management and budget , the transportation department and other agencies are `` developing longer-term legislation '' that should be ready soon . much of the cost of cleaning up after the earthquake will involve repairing highways and bridges . california lawmakers are seeking changes in rules governing the federal highway relief program so more money can be made available for the state . some things ca n't be repaired . the asian art museum in golden gate park reports $ 10 million to $ 15 million in damage , including shattered porcelains and stone figures . its neighbor , the de young museum , totaled $ 3 million to $ 5 million in structural damage and shattered sculpture . the city 's main library is closed because of fissures that opened in its walls , and marble facings and ornamental plaster at the beaux arts city hall broke off in the temblor . the ground along the embarcadero the street that skirts the city 's eastern boundary and piers -- dropped six inches after the quake , wreaking major damage to at least one of the piers . at san francisco international airport , shock waves wrecked the control tower , knocking down computers and shattering glass . offices of the city 's rent board were destroyed . mayor agnos 's $ 2 billion estimate does n't include damage to freeway arteries leading into the city , some of which remained closed . a major chunk of the $ 2 billion is expected to be eaten up by overtime for city workers deployed in the emergency , said 0 a spokesman for mr. agnos . `` all of the city 's $ 5.9 million emergency reserve was spent in the first 24 hours '' on overtime salaries , he said 0 . insurers struggled to to get a firm grasp on the volume of claims pouring into their offices . at fireman 's fund corp. , a spokesman said 0 142 claims were received in the first 24 hours after the quake , and the company is braced for as many as 5,000 claims from its 35,000 residential and 35,000 business policyholders in the affected area . `` claims range from a scratched fender -- and there were an awful lot of cars damaged in this -- to a major processing plant , '' a spokesman said . `` we 're delivering a check for $ 750,000 to an automotive business in berkeley that burned on tuesday . '' fireman 's is part of a $ 38 million syndicate that supplies business interruption insurance to the city on the bay bridge , which must pay employees during the three weeks or more 0 it is expected to be out of service and deprived of toll income . california lawmakers want to eliminate temporarily a $ 100 million cap on the amount of federal highway relief for each state for each disaster , as well as a prohibition on using the emergency highway aid to repair toll roads . in addition , under the highway-relief program , the federal government provides 100 % of emergency highway aid for only the first 90 days of a repair effort . after that , the federal share diminishes . for interstate highways , the federal share normally would drop to 90 % of the cost of repairs , and the state would have to pick up the remainder of the cost . but lawmakers want to extend the period for 100 % federal funding for several months . those changes also would apply to two areas hit hard by hurricane hugo -- south carolina and the u.s. virgin islands , according to an aide to rep. fazio . meanwhile , the fema announced a toll-free telephone number -lrb- 800-462-9029 -rrb- 0 to expedite service to victims of the earthquake . lines will be available 24 hours a day 0 to take applications for such disaster relief as temporary housing and emergency home repairs by phone . transportation officials are expecting utter traffic pandemonium beginning monday and growing worse over the next several weeks . some 250,000 cars normally cross the closed bay bridge between oakland and san francisco daily . officials say 0 it is clear that alternate routes ca n't handle the overflow . the state is calling in a flotilla of navy landing vessels and other boats 0 to expand ferry service across the bay and hopes to add numerous new bus routes and train departures to help alleviate the traffic problem . moreover , state officials are urging freight haulers to bypass many of the area 's main highways and to travel late at night or during predawn hours . even so , `` we 're looking for chaos , '' said 0 george gray , a deputy district director at the california department of transportation . `` if there 's any way 0 you can do it , you ought to go to idaho and go fishing for a while . '' most of san francisco 's tourists and business travelers already have left -- despite hotel 's offers of rate cuts . `` everyone left , '' said peter lang , reservations manager of the mark hopkins hotel . the westin st. francis hotel , which survived the 1906 earthquake and fire , currently is less than 50 % occupied . `` we still have our die-hard baseball fans , '' a spokesman said . `` one lady from new york said 0 she 's not going home until the -lcb- world series -rcb- is over . '' gerald f. seib and joe davidson in washington contributed to this article .