an ancient red-figured greek kylix , or drinking cup , was recovered backstage at sotheby 's this spring and has been returned to the manhattan couple who lost it in a burglary three years ago . robert guy , an associate curator at the princeton art museum , was previewing a june antiquities sale at the auction house when he recognized the kylix , which he , as a specialist in attic pottery and a careful reader of the stolen art alert in `` ifar reports , '' knew 0 was stolen . the timing of his visit was fortuitous ; the man who had brought it in for an estimate had returned to collect it and was waiting in the hall . to confirm mr. guy 's identification , sotheby 's and ifar exchanged photos by fax , and the waiting man , apparently innocent of knowledge that the kylix was stolen , agreed to release it . the cup had been insured , and in short order it was given over to a chubb & son representative . the original owners happily repaid the claim and took their kylix home . a former curator of the museum of cartoon art in rye brook , n.y. , pleaded guilty in july to stealing and selling original signed and dated comic strips , among them 29 dick tracy strips by chester gould , 77 prince valiant sunday cartoons by hal foster , and a dozen walt disney animation celluloids , according to barbara hammond , the museum 's director . he sold them well below market value to raise cash `` to pay off mounting credit-card debts , '' incurred to buy presents for his girlfriend , his attorney , philip russell , told ifar 0 . the curator , 27-year-old sherman krisher of greenwich , conn. , had worked his way up from janitor in seven years at the museum . the theft was discovered early this year , soon after ms. hammond took her post . sentencing was postponed on aug. 18 , when mr. krisher was hospitalized for depression . his efforts to get back the stolen strips had resulted in recovery of just three . but on oct. 6 , he had reason 0 to celebrate . two days earlier , his attorney met in a park avenue law office with a cartoon dealer who expected to sell 44 of the most important stolen strips to mr. russell for $ 62,800 . instead , new york city police seized the stolen goods , and mr. krisher avoided jail . he was sentenced to 500 hours of community service and restitution to the museum of $ 45,000 . authorities at london 's heathrow airport are investigating the disappearance of a paul gauguin watercolor , `` young tahitian woman in a red pareo , '' that has two sketches on its verso -lrb- opposite -rrb- side . valued at $ 1.3 million , it was part of a four-crate shipment . the air-waybill number was changed en route , and paper work showing that the crates had cleared customs was misplaced , so it was a week before three of the four crates could be located in a bonded warehouse and the gauguin discovered missing . although heathrow authorities have been watching a group of allegedly crooked baggage handlers for some time , the gauguin may be `` lost . '' chief inspector peter seacomb of the criminal investigation department at the airport said , `` it is not uncommon for property to be temporarily mislaid or misrouted . '' officials at the university of virginia art museum certainly would agree . their museum had purchased an attic black-figured column krater and shipped it from london . it was reported stolen in transit en route to washington , d.c. , in february . months later , the greek vase arrived in good condition at the museum in charlottesville , having inexplicably traveled by a circuitous route through nairobi . two mexican college dropouts , not professional art thieves , have been arrested for a 1985 christmas eve burglary from the national museum of anthropology in mexico city . about 140 mayan , aztec , mixtec and zapotec objects , including some of mexico 's best-known archaeological treasures , were taken . the government offered a reward for the return of the antiquities , but routine police work led to the recovery . as it turned out , carlos perches trevino and ramon sardina garcia had hidden the haul in a closet in the perches family 's home for a year . then they took the art to acapulco and began to trade some of it for cocaine . information from an arrested drug trafficker led to the two men and the recovery of almost all the stolen art . among other happy news bulletins from the german democratic republic , the leipzig museum of fine arts announced that it has recovered `` cemetery in the snow , '' a painting by the german romantic painter caspar david friedrich . the artist 's melancholy subjects bring high prices on the world market , and the u.s. state department notified ifar of the theft in february 1988 . according to a source at the east europe desk , two previously convicted felons were charged , tried , convicted and sentenced to prison terms of four and 12 years . the precious canvas , cut from its frame at the time of the theft , was found in nearby jena , hidden in the upholstery of an easy chair in the home of the girlfriend of one of the thieves . no charges were brought against her . trompe l'oeil painting is meant to fool the eye , but robert lawrence trotter , 35 , of kennett square , pa. , took his fooling seriously . he painted one himself in the style of john haberle and sold it as a 19th-century original to antique dealers in woodbridge , conn . mr. trotter 's painting showed a wall of wood boards with painted ribbons tacked down in a rectangle ; tucked behind the ribbons were envelopes , folded , faded and crumpled papers and currency . mr. trotter 's fake haberle was offered at a bargain price of $ 25,000 with a phony story that it belonged to his wife 's late aunt in new canaan , conn . the dealers immediately showed their new acquisition to an expert and came to see it as a fake . they persuaded mr. trotter to take it back and , with the help of the fbi , taped their conversation with him . after his arrest , the forger admitted to faking and selling other paintings up and down the eastern seaboard . ms. lowenthal is executive director of the international foundation for art research -lrb- ifar -rrb- .