blue-chip advertisers have plenty of complaints about the magazines 0 they advertise in , ranging from inadequate consumer research to ad `` clutter '' and a seemingly unchecked proliferation of special interest magazines . criticism from such big advertisers as estee lauder inc. , colgate-palmolive co. and seagram co. put a damper on the euphoria at the american magazine conference here . the conference opened monday with glowing reports about consumer magazines ' growth in circulation and advertising revenue in the past year . `` magazines are not providing us in-depth information on circulation , '' said edgar bronfman jr. , president and chief operating officer of seagram , in a panel discussion . `` how do readers feel about the magazine ? how deeply do they read it ? research does n't tell us whether people actually do read the magazines 0 they subscribe to . '' reuben mark , chief executive of colgate-palmolive , said 0 advertisers lack detailed demographic and geographic breakdowns of magazines ' audiences . `` we need research that convinces us that magazines are a real value in reader 's lives , that readers are really involved . '' the critics also lambasted the magazine industry for something 0 executives often are very proud of : the growth in magazine titles during the 1980s . leonard lauder , president and chief executive officer of estee lauder , said 0 consumer magazines are suffering from what he called `` niche-itis , '' the increasing number of magazines that target the idosyncratic interests of readers . `` niche-itis fragments our advertising dollars , '' said mr. lauder . `` we are being over-magazined . we are constantly faced with deciding which partnerships -lcb- with magazines -rcb- we can keep . '' he added : `` there 's probably even a magazine for left-handed golfers ... but the general interest magazine is something 0 we all miss , and it should come back . '' mr. lauder also attacked what he sees as the wide imitation of elle , a fashion magazine published by diamandis communications inc. , and criticized the practice of stacking ads at the front of magazines . `` readers do n't want to face all those ad pages at the front of a magazine , '' he said . magazine editors did not take the criticisms lying down . `` we spend a fortune on research information , '' said steve burzon , publisher of meredith corp. 's metropolitan home . and tina brown , editor of conde nast publications inc. 's vanity fair , said 0 advertisers are frequently asked to take advertising positions in the back of her magazine to relieve ad clutter . `` but advertisers would n't think of it , '' she said . bernard leser , president of conde nast , added : `` our research shows 0 we sell more of our heavier issues ... because readers believe 0 they are getting more for what they pay for .