it 's a california crime saga worthy of an erle stanley gardner title : the case of the purloined palm trees . edward carlson awoke one morning last month to find eight holes in his front yard where his prized miniature palms , called cycads , once stood . days later , the thieves returned and dug out more , this time adding insult to injury . `` the second time , '' he says , `` they left the shovel . '' no garden-variety crime , palm-tree rustling is sprouting up all over southern california , bringing big bucks to crooks who know their botany . cycads , the most popular of which is the sago palm , are doll-sized versions of california 's famous long-necked palms , with stubby trunks and fern-like fronds . because the sago is relatively rare and grows only a couple of inches a year , it 's a pricey lawn decoration : a two-foot tall sago can retail for $ 1,000 , and taller ones often fetch $ 3,000 or more . `` evidently , somebody has realized 0 it 's easy money to steal these things , '' says loran whitelock , a research associate specializing in cycads at the los angeles state and county arboretum . just last week , would-be thieves damaged three sagos at mr. whitelock 's home in the eagle rock section before something frightened them off , foiled . `` it 's hard to think 0 someone is raping your garden , '' he says . police suspect that the criminals , who dig up the plants in the dead of night , are selling them to nurseries or landscapers . the sago has become a popular accent in tony new housing tracts , apparently giving the rustlers a ready market for their filched fronds . thieves are going to find `` anybody who has enough bucks 0 to plant these things in their front yard , '' says 0 william morrissey , an investigator with the police department in garden grove , calif. , where five such thefts have been reported in the past several weeks . the department is advising residents to plant sagos , if they must , in the back yard and telling nurseries to be on the lookout for anyone trying to palm one off . but for those californians who want exotic gardens out front where neighbors can appreciate them , there 's always harold smith 's approach . after three sagos were stolen from his home in garden grove , `` i put a big iron stake in the ground and tied the tree to the stake with a chain , '' he says proudly . `` and you ca n't cut this chain with bolt cutters .