criticism in the u.s. over recent japanese acquisitions is looming ever larger in the two countries ' relations . officials from both nations say 0 the u.s. public 's skittishness about japanese investment could color a second round of bilateral economic talks scheduled for next week in washington . not that washington and tokyo disagree on the japanese acquisitions ; indeed , each has come out in favor of unfettered investment in the u.s. . where they disagree is on the subject of u.s. direct investment in japan . the u.s. wants the removal of what it perceives as barriers to investment ; japan denies 0 there are real barriers . the heated talk stirred up by recent japanese investments in the u.s. is focusing attention on the differences in investment climate , even though it 's only one of many subjects 0 to be covered in the bilateral talks , known as the structural impediments initiative . the japanese `` should see this rhetoric as a signal of the need for a change in their own economy , '' says 0 charles dallara , u.s. assistant treasury secretary , who has been in tokyo this week informally discussing the impending negotiations with government and business leaders . `` we have a long history of maintaining an open direct-investment policy , '' mr. dallara says . `` u.s. investors should have a greater opportunity at direct investment '' in japan . the japanese fret openly about the u.s. public 's rancor . one clear sign of japan 's nervousness came this week , when a spokesman for japan 's foreign ministry devoted nearly all of a regular , half-hour briefing for foreign journalists to the subject of recent japanese investments in the u.s. . `` we believe that it is vitally important for those japanese business interests -lcb- in the u.s. . -rcb- to be more aware of the emotions and concerns of the american people , '' said the spokesman , taizo watanabe . at the same time , though , he chastised the media for paying such close attention to japanese investment when other foreign countries , notably britain , are acquiring more american assets . fears that japanese investors are buying up america have escalated sharply in the past several weeks , with sony corp. 's purchase of columbia pictures entertainment inc. from coca-cola co. and mitsubishi estate co. 's acquisition of a 51 % holding in rockefeller group , the owner of some of midtown manhattan 's most exclusive real estate . even before those moves added fuel , the fires of discontent had been well stoked by the highly publicized experience in japan of one u.s. investor , t. boone pickens jr . the texas oilman has acquired a 26.2 % stake valued at more than $ 1.2 billion in an automotive-lighting company , koito manufacturing co . but he has failed to gain any influence at the company . koito has refused to grant mr. pickens seats on its board , asserting 0 he is a greenmailer trying to pressure koito 's other shareholders into buying him out at a profit . mr. pickens made considerable political hay with his troubles in japan . the senate finance committee , chaired by a fellow texan , democratic sen. lloyd bentsen , last month urged u.s. trade representative carla hills to use mr. pickens 's experience in talks with tokyo `` to highlight this problem facing americans who seek access to the japanese capital markets . '' while mr. dallara and japanese officials say 0 the question of investors ' access to the u.s. and japanese markets may get a disproportionate share of the public 's attention , a number of other important economic issues will be on the table at next week 's talks . among them are differences in savings and investment rates , corporate structures and management , and government spending . each side has a litany of recommendations for the other . the u.s. says 0 it is anxious for results . `` we feel very strongly that we really need action across the full range of issues 0 we 've identified , and we need it by next spring , '' mr. dallara says . both sides have agreed that the talks will be most successful if negotiators start by focusing on the areas that can be most easily changed . but they have n't clarified what those might be . after the first set of meetings two months ago , some u.s. officials complained that japan had n't come up with specific changes 0 it was prepared to make . the japanese retort that the first round was too early to make concessions . `` just to say 0 the distribution system is wrong does n't mean anything , '' says a ministry of international trade and industry official . `` we need to clarify what exactly is wrong with it . '' that process of sorting out specifics is likely to take time , the japanese say 0 , no matter how badly the u.s. wants quick results . for instance , at the first meeting the two sides could n't even agree on basic data used in price discussions . since then , a team of about 15 miti and u.s. commerce department officials have crossed the globe gauging consumer prices . by monday , they hope to have a sheaf of documents 0 both sides can trust . `` little by little , there is progress , '' says the miti official . `` both sides are taking action . '' elisabeth rubinfien contributed to this article .