if bluebloods wo n't pay high prices for racehorses anymore , who will ? breeders are betting on the common folk . the thoroughbred owners and breeders association , a lexington , ky.-based trade group , has launched `` seminars '' for `` potential investors '' at race tracks around the country . the group , which has held half a dozen seminars so far , also is considering promotional videos and perhaps a pitch to wall street investment bankers . `` people in this business have been insulated , '' says josh pons , a horse breeder from bel air , md . `` but the real future of this game is in a number of people owning a few horses . '' at the laurel race track , the breeders are romancing people like tim hulings , a beer packaging plant worker . right now , mr. hulings is waving his racing program , cheering for karnak on the nile , a sleek thoroughbred galloping down the home stretch . mr. hulings gloats that he sold all his stocks a week before the market plummeted 190 points on oct. 13 , and he is using the money to help buy a 45-acre horse farm . `` just imagine how exciting that would be if that 's your horse , '' he says . but experts caution that this is n't a game for anyone with a weak stomach or wallet . `` it 's a big-risk business , '' warns charles c. mihalek , a lexington attorney and former kentucky state securities commissioner . `` you have to go into it firmly believing that it 's the kind of investment where you can lose everything . '' and many have done just that . consider spendthrift farm , a prominent lexington horse farm that went public in 1983 but hit hard times and filed for bankruptcy-court protection last year . a group of investors recently bought the remaining assets of spendthrift , hoping to rebuild it . other investors have lost millions in partnerships that bought thoroughbred racehorses or stallion breeding rights . one big problem has been the thoroughbred racehorse market . from 1974 to 1984 , prices for the best yearlings at the summer sales rose 918 % to an average of $ 544,681 . since then , prices have slumped , to an average of $ 395,374 this summer . but that 's for the best horses , with most selling for much less -- as little as $ 100 for some pedestrian thoroughbreds . even while they move outside their traditional tony circle , racehorse owners still try to capitalize on the elan of the sport . glossy brochures circulated at racetracks gush about the limelight of the winner 's circle and high-society schmoozing . one handout promises : `` pedigrees , parties , post times , parimutuels and pageantry . '' `` it 's just a matter of marketing and promoting ourselves , '' says headley bell , a fifth-generation horse breeder from lexington . maybe it 's not that simple . for starters , racehorse buyers have to remember the basic problem of such ventures : these beasts do n't come with warranties . and for every champion , there are plenty of nags . katherine voss , a veteran trainer at the laurel , md. , track , offers neophytes a sobering tour of a horse barn , noting that only three of about a dozen horses have won sizable purses . one brown two-year-old filly was wheezing from a cold , while another had splints on its legs , keeping both animals from the racetrack . `` you can see the highs and lows of the business all under one roof , '' she tells the group . `` there are n't too many winners . '' perhaps the biggest hurdle 0 owners face is convincing newcomers that this is a reputable business . some badly managed partnerships have burned investors , sometimes after they received advice from industry `` consultants . '' so owners have developed a `` code of ethics , '' outlining rules for consultants and agents , and disclosure of fees and any conflicts of interest . but some are skeptical of the code 's effectiveness . `` the industry is based on individual honesty , '' says cap hershey , a lexington horse farmer and one of the investors who bought spendthrift . despite the drop in prices for thoroughbreds , owning one still is n't cheap . at the low end , investors can spend $ 15,000 or more to own a racehorse in partnership with others . at a yearling sale , a buyer can go solo and get a horse for a few thousand dollars . but that means paying the horse 's maintenance ; on average , it costs $ 25,000 a year to raise a horse . for those looking for something between a minority stake and total ownership , the owners ' group is considering a special sale where established horse breeders would sell a 50 % stake in horses to newcomers .