after two years of drought , it rained money in the stock-index futures markets yesterday . as financial markets rebounded , trading volume in the chicago mercantile exchange 's huge standard & poor 's 500 stock-index futures pit soared , reaching near-record levels for the first time since october 1987 . the sudden influx of liquidity enabled several traders to reap six-figure windfalls in a matter of minutes as prices soared , traders said . `` guys were minting money in there today , '' said john legittino , a futures broker for elders futures inc. in chicago . the s&p 500 futures contract , which moves in fractions of an index point under normal conditions , jumped two to three points in seconds early yesterday after an initial downturn , then moved strongly higher the rest of the day . each index point represents a $ 500 profit for each s&p 500 contract held . for the first time since the 1987 crash , traders said that they were able to trade several hundred s&p 500 contracts at a time in a highly liquid market . many institutions and individual investors have shied away from stock-index futures , blaming them for speeding the stock market crash on black monday two years ago . since the crash , many futures traders have n't assumed large positions for fear that the s&p 500 market , with much of its customer order flow missing , would dry up if prices turned against them . more than 400 traders jammed the s&p 500 futures pit to await the opening bell . traders were shouting bids and offers a full five minutes before the start of trading at 8:30 am the contract fell five points at the open to 323.85 , the maximum opening move allowed under safeguards adopted by the merc to stem a market slide . but several traders quickly stepped up and bid for contracts , driving prices sharply higher . the market hovered near friday 's closing price of 328.85 for about a half hour , moving several index points higher or lower in seconds , then broke higher and did n't look back . the s&p 500 contract that expires in december closed up a record 15.65 points on volume of nearly 80,000 contracts . `` traders five feet from each other were making bids and offers that were a full point apart , '' said one s&p 500 broker . `` you could buy at the bid and sell at the offer and make a fortune , '' he marveled . several of wall street 's largest securities firms , including salomon brothers inc. and painewebber inc. , were also large buyers , traders said 0 . salomon brothers was among the largest sellers of stock-index futures last week , traders said 0 . brokerage firms as a rule do n't comment on their market activity . unlike the week following black monday two years ago , individual traders in the s&p 500 pit were also being uncharacteristically circumspect about their one-day profits . `` with the fbi around here , bragging rights are a thing of the past , '' said one trader , referring to the federal investigation of futures trading that so far has resulted in 46 indictments lodged against individuals on the merc and the chicago board of trade .