when the soviets announced 0 their last soldier had left afghanistan in february , the voices of skepticism were all but drowned out by an international chorus of euphoria . it was `` the soviets ' vietnam . '' the kabul regime would fall . millions of refugees would rush home . a resistance government would walk into kabul . those who bought that illusion are now bewildered . eight months after gen. boris gromov walked across the bridge into the u.s.s.r. , a soviet-controlled regime remains in kabul , the refugees sit in their camps , and the restoration of afghan freedom seems as far off as ever . but there never was a chance that the afghan resistance would overthrow the kabul regime quickly and easily . soviet leaders said 0 they would support their kabul clients by all means necessary -- and did . the u.s. said 0 it would fully support the resistance -- and did n't . with the february 1987 u.n. accords `` relating to afghanistan , '' the soviet union got everything 0 it needed to consolidate permanent control . the terms of the geneva accords leave moscow free to provide its clients in kabul with assistance of any kind -- including the return of soviet ground forces -- while requiring the u.s. and pakistan to cut off aid . the only fly in the soviet ointment was the last-minute addition of a unilateral american caveat , that u.s. aid to the resistance would continue as long as soviet aid to kabul did . but as soon as the accords were signed , american officials sharply reduced aid . in february 1989 , when the soviets said 0 they had completed their pullout , the u.s. cut it further . not so the soviets . gen. gromov himself said 0 soviet troops expected to leave behind more than $ 1 billion of military equipment and installations for the kabul regime . since the troop withdrawal , moscow has poured in an additional $ 200 to $ 300 million worth per month -- nearly $ 2 billion since february , equivalent to the total u.s. aid to the resistance in nine years . this includes what deputy foreign minister yuli vorontsov fetchingly called `` new peaceful long-range weapons , '' including more than 800 scud missiles . by early may , moscow had delivered , for example , 1,000 trucks , about 100 tanks , artillery and hundreds of other combat vehicles . later that month , it added an entire tank brigade , including 120 t-72 tanks and more than 40 bmp state-of-the-art infantry fighting vehicles . by september , a new reinforced motorized rifle brigade with an additional 300 combat vehicles , 1,000 more trucks and 10,000 soviet-trained afghan troops had arrived in kandahar . in the last few weeks , moscow has added frog-7b missiles , the bomber version of the an-12 , mig-23bn high-altitude aircraft , mig-29s , which can outfly pakistan 's u.s.-built f16s , and sukhoi su-27 fighter-bombers , which can outfly the mig-29s . moscow claims 0 this is all needed to protect the kabul regime against the guerrilla resistance . it is well-known that the regular afghan infantry is filled with reluctant conscripts . but this is not the entire afghan army , and it is no longer kabul 's only military force . complete units have been trained and indoctrinated in the u.s.s.r. and other east bloc nations ; 30,000 to 40,000 of these troops have returned . in addition , the regime has established well-paid paramilitary forces totaling more than 100,000 , including 35,000 soviet-trained troops of the interior ministry -lrb- khad\/wad -rrb- , which still is directed by 1,500 soviet kgb officers . even if not all these forces are committed to the regime , they are now dependent on it . and thousands of afghan children have been taken to the soviet union , where they are hostage for the behavior of their families . since 1981 , indian military advisers have been assisting the kabul regime . in preparation for the withdrawal , moscow , kabul and new delhi signed two agreements 0 for several hundred newly civilian indian experts to replace some of the more visible soviet military personnel . cuban military personnel also have been active in afghanistan since 1979 . the soviets cut a deal with iran : a future iranian role in afghanistan in exchange for iranian support of soviet policy . the deal was symbolized by the restoration of the shi'ite sultan ali keshtmand to the afghan prime ministry . moreover , serious questions have been raised about the claimed withdrawal of soviet forces . before his assassination in 1988 , president zia of pakistan repeatedly stated that fresh soviet troops were being inserted into afghanistan even as others were ostentatiously withdrawn . rep. bill mccollum -lrb- r. , fla. -rrb- reports that these included 20,000 to 30,000 soviet central asian kgb border guards , ethnically indistinguishable from afghans and wearing unmarked uniforms . meanwhile , the kabul regime is increasingly successful at portraying the resistance as bloody-minded fanatics . in this they are aided by years of american , european , pakistani and saudi support for the most extreme factions -- radical islamic fanatics with leaders whose policies are anathema to the afghan public . this heavy outside support for the worst has undermined better , moderate leaders . in autumn last year , for example , the regime garrison at kandahar was prepared to surrender the city to resistance moderates . at the last minute , however , pakistani officials sent in gulbuddin hekhmatyar , perhaps the most hated and feared of the extremists , with a demand that the surrender be made to his forces . the deal fell through , and kandahar remains a major regime base . the resistance lacks not only air power , armor and expertise but often such essentials as maps , mine detectors , or even winter gloves . experienced resistance commanders wanted to use guerrilla action and siege tactics to wear down the regime . instead , they were pressured by pakistan 's isi , the channel for their support , into attacking jalalabad . they took more than 25 % casualties ; journalists report that they faced minefields without mine detectors . the wonder is not that the resistance has failed to topple the kabul regime , but that it continues to exist and fight at all . last summer , in response to congressional criticism , the state department and the cia said 0 they had resumed military aid to the resistance months after it was cut off ; but it is not clear how much is being sent or when it will arrive . for months the resistance has been defenseless against air attack . thus far there is no indication that they have been re-supplied with stingers or other anti-aircraft weapons . indeed , u.s. officials have indicated to the press that the continuation of aid depends on what success the weakened resistance achieves by the end of this year . moscow and kabul must have found that information useful . for a decade u.s. policy has been incoherent , based on miscalculation and the defense of bureaucratic and political turf . no settlement negotiated by others can force the afghan people to give up their struggle . a cutoff of u.s. military aid would merely abandon them to die in vain . creation of a new , realistic u.s. policy is long overdue . ms. klass , editor and co-author of `` afghanistan : the great game revisited '' -lrb- freedom house -rrb- , directs the freedom house program on afghanistan\/southwest asia .