south africa freed the anc 's sisulu and seven other political prisoners . thousands of supporters , many brandishing flags of the outlawed african national congress , gave the anti-apartheid activists a tumultuous reception upon their return to black townships across the country . most of those freed had spent at least 25 years in prison . the 77-year-old sisulu , sentenced to life in 1964 along with black nationalist nelson mandela for plotting to overthrow the government , said 0 equality for blacks in south africa was in reach . the releases , announced last week by president de klerk , were viewed as pretoria 's tacit legalization of the anc . mandela , considered the most prominent leader of the anc , remains in prison . but his release within the next few months is widely expected . the soviet union reported that thousands of tons of goods needed to ease widespread shortages across the nation were piled up at ports and rail depots , and food shipments were rotting because of a lack of people and equipment 0 to move the cargo . strikes and mismanagement were cited , and premier ryzhkov warned of `` tough measures . '' bush indicated 0 there might be `` room for flexibility '' in a bill 0 to allow federal funding of abortions for poor women who are vicitims of rape and incest . he reiterated his opposition to such funding , but expressed hope of a compromise . the president , at a news conference friday , also renewed a call for the ouster of panama 's noriega . the white house said 0 minors have n't any right to abortion without the consent of their parents . the administration 's policy was stated in a friend-of-the-court brief urging the supreme court to give states more leeway 0 to restrict abortions . ten of the nation 's governors , meanwhile , called on the justices to reject efforts to limit abortions . the justice department announced that the fbi has been given the authority to seize u.s. fugitives overseas without the permission of foreign governments . secretary of state baker emphasized friday that the new policy would n't be invoked by the bush administration without full consideration of foreign-policy implications . nasa pronounced the space shuttle atlantis ready for launch tomorrow following a five-day postponement of the flight because of a faulty engine computer . the device was replaced . the spacecraft 's five astronauts are to dispatch the galileo space probe on an exploration mission to jupiter . south korea 's president roh traveled to the u.s. for a five-day visit that is expected to focus on ties between washington and seoul . roh , who is facing calls for the reduction of u.s. military forces in south korea , is to meet with bush tomorrow and is to address a joint session of congress on wednesday . china 's communist leadership voted to purge the party of `` hostile and anti-party elements '' and wealthy private businessmen , whom they called exploiters . the decision , reported by the official xinhua news agency , indicated that the crackdown prompted by student-led pro-democracy protests in june is intensifying . hundreds of east germans flocked to bonn 's embassy in warsaw , bringing to more than 1,200 the number of emigres expected to flee to the west beginning today . more than 2,100 others escaped to west germany through hungary over the weekend . in leipzig , activists vowed to continue street protests 0 to demand internal change . zaire 's president mobutu met in southern france with angolan rebel leader savimbi and a senior u.s. envoy in a bid to revive an accord 0 to end angola 's civil war . details of the talks , described by a zairean official as `` very delicate , '' were n't disclosed . plo leader arafat insisted on guarantees that any elections in the israeli-occupied territories would be impartial . he made his remarks to a plo gathering in baghdad . in the occupied lands , underground leaders of the arab uprising rejected a u.s. plan to arrange israeli-palestinian talks as shamir opposed holding such discussions in cairo . lebanese christian lawmakers presented to arab mediators at talks in saudi arabia proposals for a new timetable for the withdrawal of syria 's forces from lebanon . a plan currently under study gives damascus two years 0 to pull back to eastern lebanon , starting from the time 0 beirut 's legislature increases political power for moslems . hurricane jerry threatened to combine with the highest tides of the year to swamp the texas-louisiana coast . thousands of residents of low-lying areas were ordered to evacuate as the storm headed north in the gulf of mexico with 80 mph winds .