coca-cola co. , aiming to boost soft-drink volume in singapore , said 0 it is discussing a joint venture with fraser & neave ltd. , its bottling franchisee in that country . the venture would be the latest in coke 's rapid expansion of overseas investment . so far this year , it has put nearly $ 700 million into bottling operations in australia , new zealand and france . the move also reflects coke 's eagerness to have a hand in developing the soft-drink markets in pacific basin countries . aside from europe , the pacific division is where coke will be focusing much of its attention for years 0 to come . that 's because when coke looks to the pacific area , it sees an economic and demographic gold mine . in countries such as taiwan , south korea and singapore , economies are growing , resulting in a rise in disposable income that consumers can use for soft drinks . and unlike europe and the u.s. , where populations are aging , the pacific basin countries have growing proportions of youths -- the heaviest consumers of coca-cola and other sodas . a coca-cola spokesman said 0 it is too early to say how the joint venture would be structured , or how much the company would invest in the transaction . in the past , however , coke has typically taken a minority stake in such ventures . by acquiring stakes in bottling companies in the u.s. and overseas , coke has been able to improve bottlers ' efficiency and production , and in some cases , marketing . coke has tended to increase its control when results were sluggish in a given country . that does n't appear to be the case in singapore , a country of about three million people with a relatively high soft-drink consumption rate -- a key indicator of coke 's success in a market . in singapore , per-capita consumption is about one-third that of the u.s. . and combining fraser & neave 's own soft drinks with coca-cola 's gives the singapore company more than half the share of the soda market there , coke said 0 . fraser & neave , which also has interests in packaging , beer and dairy products , holds the coke licenses for malaysia and brunei , where per-capita consumption is n't as high as in singapore . coke could be interested in more quickly developing some of the untapped potential in those markets . a coke spokesman said 0 he could n't say whether that is the direction of the talks . coke said 0 the joint-venture arrangement , which needs approval from both companies ' boards , should be completed early next year .