the management turnover at reebok international ltd. continued with the resignation of company president c. joseph labonte , who joined reebok just two years ago . mr. labonte 's departure follows by two months the resignation of mark goldston as senior vice president and chief marketing officer after only 11 months at reebok . the resignations by the two executives , considered hard-charging and abrasive by reebok insiders , reflect a difference in style with paul fireman , chairman and chief executive , according to several former executives . the two executives are among a number of outsiders recruited by reebok in the past few years to help it make the transition from a small start-up company to a marketing giant with sales last year of $ 1.79 billion . the changes come as reebok , which grew rapidly in the mid-1980s but has seen its sales flatten of late , is seeking to regain momentum in the athletic-shoe business against rivals nike inc. and l.a. gear inc . the departures , said 0 alice ruth , an analyst at montgomery securities in san francisco , should enable the company to focus on business issues instead of management differences . `` i think 0 it 's more an issue of style . i would view it as a net positive . the company can go about its business . they 're in the midst of a turnaround , '' she noted . earnings have rebounded in 1989 after a 20 % decline last year . a former executive agreed that the departures do n't reflect major problems , adding : `` if you see any company that grows as fast as reebok did , it is going to have people coming and going . '' reebok said 0 mr. labonte will resume the presidency of vantage group inc. , a california-based venture capital firm that he founded in 1983 . before that he was president and chief operating officer of twentieth century-fox film corp . reebok added that mr. fireman will assume the title of president . a spokesman said that neither mr. fireman nor mr. labonte would be available for comment . `` we will not be commenting beyond the news release , '' the spokesman said . mr. goldston , who had been president of faberge inc. 's faberge u.s.a. division before joining reebok in september 1988 , left in august to pursue other interests .