the real estate slump that 's pushing down the price of new york office space and housing is also affecting the city 's retail real estate market . in manhattan , once-desirable store sites sit vacant and newly constructed space has been slow to fill . retail real estate brokers say 0 tenants are reluctant to sign leases because of uncertainty about the local economy , turmoil in their own industries and a belief that rents have not yet hit bottom . `` there is an unbelievable amount of space available , '' says faith consolo , senior vice president at garrick-aug associates store leasing inc . there are about 2,000 stores for rent , up from a more typical range of 1,200 to 1,500 . `` this further confuses retailers , '' she says . `` they wonder should they sign a lease if prices are still coming down ? is this the wrong time 0 to open a store ? who is going to be in the space next door ? '' in addition , ms. consolo says 0 , tenants usually can negotiate to pay rents that are about one-quarter lower than landlords ' initial asking price . a handful of hot retail locations , such as the 57th street and madison and fifth avenue areas , have been able to sustain what many see as astronomical rents . and , in some neighborhoods , rents have merely hit a plateau . but on average , manhattan retail rents have dropped 10 % to 15 % in the past six months alone , experts say 0 . that follows a more subtle decline in the prior six months , after manhattan rents had run up rapidly since 1986 . the same factors limiting demand for office space have affected retailing . `` as businesses contract or depart , the number of employees who might use retail services shrinks , '' says edward a. friedman , senior vice president of helmsley spear inc . he says 0 financial problems plaguing electronics , fur and furniture companies -- key categories in the local retail economy -- have further deflated the market . hardest hit are what he calls `` secondary '' sites that primarily serve neighborhood residents . in these locations , mr. friedman says 0 , `` retailers are increasingly cautious about expanding and rents have remained steady or in some cases have declined . '' weakness in the restaurant industry , which is leaving retail space vacant , exacerbates the problem for landlords . it is also no comfort to landlords and small new york retailers when the future of larger department stores , which anchor retail neighborhoods , are in doubt . hooker corp. , parent of bonwit teller and b. altman 's , is mired in bankruptcy proceedings and bloomingdale 's is for sale by its owner , campeau corp . the trend toward lower rents may seem surprising given that some communities in new york are bemoaning the loss of favorite local businesses to high rents . but , despite the recent softening , for many of these retailers there 's still been too big a jump from the rental rates of the late 1970s , when their leases were signed . certainly , the recent drop in prices does n't mean 0 manhattan comes cheap . new york retail rents still run well above the going rate in other u.s. cities . madison and fifth avenues and east 57th street can command rents of up to $ 500 a square foot , and $ 250 is not uncommon . the thriving 34th street area offers rents of about $ 100 a square foot , as do up-and-coming locations along lower fifth avenue . by contrast , rentals in the best retail locations in boston , san francisco and chicago rarely top $ 100 a square foot . and rents on beverly hills ' rodeo drive generally do n't exceed about $ 125 a square foot . the new york stock exchange said 0 two securities will begin trading this week . precision castparts corp. , portland , ore. , will begin trading with the symbol pcp . it makes investment castings and has traded over-the-counter . royal bank of scotland group plc , an edinburgh , scotland , financial services company , will list american depositary shares , representing preferred shares , with the symbol rbspr . it will continue to trade on the international stock exchange , london . the american stock exchange listed shares of two companies . aim telephones inc. , a parsippany , n.j. , telecommunications equipment supply company , started trading with the symbol aim . it had traded over-the-counter . columbia laboratories inc. , miami , began trading with the symbol cob . the pharmaceuticals maker had traded over-the-counter . the national market system of the nasdaq over-the-counter market listed shares of one company . employee benefit plans inc. , a minneapolis health-care services company , was listed with the symbol ebpi .