after days of intense but fruitless negotiations , a federal judge last week threatened to convert william herbert hunt 's chapter 11 personal bankruptcy case into a chapter 7 liquidation . judge harold c. abramson raised the possibility after talks 0 to end a feud between two major creditors failed and all three reorganization plans in the case ran into roadblocks . if the case is converted to chapter 7 , what remains of the oil tycoon 's once-vast estate -- now believed to have a value of less than $ 125 million -- would be sold off quickly with most of the proceeds going to the internal revenue service , whose claim for $ 300 million in back taxes has priority in the case . hundreds of smaller creditors could get nothing , according to attorneys involved . while admitting 0 such a move would be `` devastating '' to most creditors , judge abramson told a courtroom filled with nearly two dozen attorneys that he was concerned about the toll 0 mounting legal bills will take on mr. hunt 's shrinking estate and about the fact that , following voting by creditors , none of the reorganization plans appeared to be viable in their present form . `` it would be a shame to have a chapter 7 after all the progress in this case , '' said judge abramson . under chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy code , a company continues to operate under protection from creditors ' lawsuits while it works out a plan 0 to pay its debts . under chapter 7 , the assets of a company are sold off to pay creditors . despite his reluctance to take the latter step , the judge indicated 0 he would move quickly after hearing testimony later this week in the bitter dispute between manufacturers hanover trust co. and minpeco s.a. , a minerals concern owned by the peruvian governmemt . the manufacturers hanover corp. unit , which is seeking repayment of a $ 36 million loan , has asked the court to give its claim priority over that of minpeco , which won a $ 132 million judgment against mr. hunt , his brother nelson bunker hunt and other defendants last year in a case stemming from their alleged attempts to corner the silver market in while claiming that penalties , legal fees and interest have driven the value of its claim to more than $ 250 million , minpeco has agreed to settle for an allowed claim of as much as $ 65.7 million . but even that is disputed by manufacturers hanover which , in alliance with the irs , contends that minpeco has already collected more than its actual damages from other defendants in the silver-conspiracy case . under prodding from judge abramson , a minpeco executive flew in from peru last week to talk directly with executives from manufacturers hanover on a settlement . despite long private sessions in both new york and dallas , the two sides ended the week `` 6,000 miles and many dollars apart , '' according to attorney hugh ray , who represents manufacturers hanover . meanwhile , inside the courtroom , the judge said 0 he would fine attorneys for the two creditors $ 50 every time 0 they referred to each other with terms such as `` liar '' or `` slime . '' all three major creditors -- the irs , minpeco and manufacturers hanover -- voted against and effectively doomed a reorganization plan proposed by mr. hunt . a reorganization plan proposed jointly by the irs and manufacturers hanover was stalled by a negative vote from minpeco . the mineral concern 's own reorganization plan met a similar fate after opposition from the irs and manufacturers hanover . neither plan is dead , however , and the judge could force creditors to accept some version of them after ruling on the minpeco-manufacturers hanover dispute . meanwhile , settlement negotiations continue between mr. hunt and the irs , which has already reached a tentative agreement with nelson bunker hunt . the two sides have been far apart on how much herbert hunt will continue to owe the government after his assets are sold .