the dallas cowboys are looking at a long-yardage situation , struggling to pull ahead of the atlanta falcons . up in his stadium box , their new and controversial owner , jerral `` jerry '' jones , watches anxiously as the team bounds up to the scrimmage line . mr. jones takes heart . there in the center of the pack is quarterback troy aikman , the key to the cowboys ' comeback strategy . so key , in fact , that mr. jones signed him in april for $ 11.4 million over the next six years -- a record for a rookie . `` he 's a genuine wheaties-box athlete , '' gushes mr. jones . with three minutes left on the clock , mr. aikman takes the snap , steps back and fires a 21-yard pass -- straight into the hands of an atlanta defensive back . the crowd groans , mr. jones shakes his head , the cowboys lose the game . a few days after that sept. 17 game , mr. aikman broke a finger , sidelining him for weeks . ah , the glamour of professional sports . for mr. jones , losing his quarterback temporarily was just the latest in a string of setbacks that has beset the dallas cowboys -- and , this year , much of the national football league . once fat and happy , the cowboys now are losing games , fans and money . last year , the team ended up $ 2 million in the red on $ 30 million in revenue . it has some of the highest costs in the league . its attendance is off 23 % from six years ago . at the very least , mr. jones , who cultivates the society circuit as eagerly as his bench , can take comfort in one fact : these days , he is n't alone . nearly half the owners of the 28 national football league teams are losing money , the result of flat attendance , aging stadiums and -- more than anything -- skyrocketing salaries for star players like mr. aikman . last year , the top 12 players on each nfl team took home an average $ 536,000 , a figure comparable to baseball and higher than in basketball . first-round draft picks have done even better : average salaries and bonuses for them rose to $ 685,000 this year , up 44 % from 1987 . `` it 's a vicious circle , '' says 0 art modell , owner of the cleveland browns . `` one team pays so much and the other pays more . we just do n't have that kind of income stream . '' all this is causing convulsions in professional football . owners , largely complacent in the past , are now almost desperately looking for ways 0 to lower costs and raise revenue -- embracing some revolutionary ideas in the process . though not intentionally , the cowboys ' mr. jones has come to represent this new breed of owner . shortly after buying 66 % of the team from h.r. `` bum '' bright for $ 145 million , and mindful of the cowboys ' ragged bottom line , the 47-year-old mr. jones set about his own round of team cuts . first , he unceremoniously sacked tom landry , the legendary coach who took the cowboys to five super bowls and 20 consecutive winning seasons . in dallas , mr. landry has a standing just shy of sainthood . anti-jones sentiment flooded the local press : `` a crude obnoxious hick , '' said one writer ; `` a real oink , '' said another ; `` who in the hell does he think 0 he is ? '' wrote a third . for mr. jones , it was just the beginning . he quickly cut the team 's bloated administrative staff by half , shut down a cowboys-owned dance academy and , in july , announced plans to sell valley ranch , the team 's 30-acre practice camp and the most lavish training facility in the nfl . mr. jones calls the ranch `` the pentagon of sportdom . '' it is a maze of halls that connects film rooms , elaborate spas and weight-training centers that testify to a richer , more free-spending era . he likes to tell the yarn of how he got lost on the expansive ranch during an early visit , took refuge in an office and called the front desk for help . `` i said , ` somebody come get me . i 'm at extension 29 . ' '' with a new day dawning on the sport , mr. jones does n't see a place for this sort of luxury . `` it 's just not cost efficient , '' he says . the place costs nearly $ 2 million a year to maintain . when he sells it , he says , the cowboys will move to a more practical -- read affordable -- grass practice field near texas stadium . and as for tom landry , well , in mr. jones 's mind , he had played out his winning years . after posting losing seasons in each of the last three years , the cowboys needed a change , he says 0 . football has long been mr. jones 's passion , both on and off the field . an arkansas native , he started at guard on the undefeated 1964 university of arkansas team that won a national championship . after college , he worked at his father 's insurance company in little rock , and in 1966 led an aborted attempt to buy the san diego chargers . years later , with cash from the sale of the insurance company , he founded arkoma production corp. , an oil and gas exploration company based in little rock . so it was n't surprising that mr. jones returned to his arkansas roots when he went looking for a replacement for mr. landry . he tapped jimmy johnson , a teammate on the 1964 university of arkansas squad and the head coach at the university of miami , where he led the hurricanes to five winning seasons and a national championship in 1987 . whatever mr. johnson 's talents , in the hearts and minds of many dallas fans , he is no tom landry . seven games -lrb- and , after a loss to the kansas city chiefs yesterday , seven losses -rrb- into the season , the `` new '' cowboys are n't doing any better than the old . in fact , the last time 0 they played this badly was in 1960 , their opening season . average attendance at their games , about 49,000 last year , continues flat . mr. jones is attacking the problem on several fronts . he continues to reshuffle the team , trading famed running back herschel walker to the minnesota vikings this month for a slew of players and future draft picks . to try to draw more fans , he has dropped end-zone ticket prices from $ 25 to $ 19 . but the general trend , given rising costs in the league , has been to raise prices , and mr. jones is expected to eventually follow suit . `` it 's simple , '' says lamar hunt , who owns the kansas city chiefs and last year raised ticket prices by $ 2.40 to an average $ 17 . `` if we did n't increase prices , we 'd be in the red . '' mr. jones has also beefed up his marketing staff to sell the 118 luxury suites topping texas stadium -lrb- his deal with bum bright included operating rights for the stadium -rrb- . the suites are air-conditioned , have wet bars and plush seating , and offer a clear view of the field -- all for a sale price of $ 475,000 to $ 1 million , depending on their size and location . mr. jones has been taking prospective suite owners onto the field during practice to let them rub elbows with players , and promises those who actually buy one of the rooms an insider 's look at the team 's strategy before game time . the sales job seems to be paying off : when he bought the team , only six of the suites had been sold . today , 30 have . gate receipts are only the cowboys ' second largest source of cash . the biggest is the nfl 's contract with national television for broadcast of the league 's games . last year , the cowboys ' share of that pie came to $ 17.6 million . the team additionally earns between $ 2 million and $ 4 million for local radio and television broadcast rights . mr. jones is currently trying to jack up the price for those local rights . he is also trying to get more stations in mexico , where the cowboys have a following , to pick up the games . mr. jones , whose twangy voice and folksy ways belie an intense businessman who works 16-hour days , is resigned to the hefty salaries 0 he pays his players these days . he calls the contracts `` critical to winning in the nfl '' and has played his part in the bidding wars . besides signing mr. aikman to a sizable contract , mr. jones has agreed to pay rookie quarterback steve walsh $ 4.1 million over the next four years . this wage inflation is bleeding the nfl dry , the owners contend . soon , only large corporations will be able to afford to buy and run football teams , predicts 0 john j. veatch jr. , an investment banker with salomon brothers who handled the cowboys sale . to tackle the problem , nfl owners have proposed setting a rookie wage scale to try to rein in salaries . details of the plan , which would go into effect in 1993 , are sketchy , but each player would apparently be paid a base salary keyed to his position and ability . bonuses would be paid based on playing time and performance . the nfl players association , meanwhile , contends that athletes are paid a wage commensurate with their ability to draw fans , and that some owners are in financial trouble because of poor business management , not players ' salaries . the owners are trying to boost profit in other ways , too . many have launched promotions 0 to attract new fans and are renegotiating dated stadium contracts . most of the owners must pay up to 10 % of gross ticket sales for leases on stadiums 0 they say 0 are either too small or too old . in chicago , for example , size is the issue . `` we have the worst lease in the nfl , '' contends michael b. mccaskey , the president of the chicago bears and a grandson of george halas , who founded the nfl 's predecessor organization . `` we 're in a metro area with millions of bear fans , and only a small number can be accommodated . '' when the lease expires in 1999 , he says , `` it 's got to be changed . '' this year , the nfl also imposed an 80-player limit on teams going into training camp , down from 120 , in a move meant to trim payroll costs . and the league is trying to get more for its three-year national network contract , which expires after this season . the current contract pays the nfl $ 1.4 billion . owners say 0 they expect the league to demand a 50 % increase , despite the fact that televised football games have had lackluster ratings . an nfl spokesman also says 0 the league will probably expand its offerings to cable tv companies like espn . the changes have n't come easy . like the game of professional football , the nfl organization itself is in turmoil . the new breed of team owner , mr. jones included , has been fighting the nfl bureaucracy for a greater say in league affairs , and the battle has produced a form of organizational gridlock . in july , 11 nfl owners , almost all of them new , blocked an effort to install jim finks as a replacement for retiring league commissioner pete rozelle . mr. finks is perceived by some owners as a standard-bearer for the old guard . earlier this month , another effort to choose a commissioner failed . the owners meet again tomorrow . for his part , jerry jones says 0 he 's in the business for the long haul , and his work style seems to support that . he puts in busy six-day weeks -lrb- excluding game days -rrb- , and on one recent afternoon fielded questions , in the course of an hour , from a tv producer , his luxury-suite marketing manager , a disgruntled customer and a roomful of arkansas reporters . to keep his schedule on track , he flies two personal secretaries in from little rock to augment his staff in dallas . `` when i made this investment , i made it on a lifetime basis , '' he explains . `` i 'm not here to make money by reselling the team later on . while the cowboys may not be the best investment now , i do n't accept 0 they ca n't be in the future . '' besides , to a large extent , mr. jones may already be getting what he wants out of the team , even though it keeps losing . owning the cowboys has bought him entree to a glitzy life that drilling for oil in arkansas just did n't provide . there is the new private jet , the platoon of assistants , invitations to the best parties , and television appearances on shows such as `` prime time live . '' a few weeks ago , mr. jones even entertained elizabeth taylor in his private suite at texas stadium . `` you 're in the catbird seat every day in this job , '' he says .