place a phone order through most any catalog and chances are 0 the clerk who answers wo n't be the only one on the line . bosses have big ears these days . or open up an electronics magazine and peruse the ads for sneaky tape recorders and other snooping gadgets . some would make even james bond green with envy . eavesdropping -- both corporate and private -- is on the rise , thanks to the proliferation of surveillance technologies . and while sellers of the equipment and companies `` monitoring '' employees have few qualms , right-to-privacy advocates and some lawmakers are alarmed . `` new technologies are changing the way 0 we deal with each other and the way 0 we work , '' says janlori goldman , a staff attorney at the american civil liberties union . `` our expectation of confidentiality is being eroded . '' on the corporate side , companies claim that monitoring employee phone conversations is both legal and necessary to gauge productivity and ensure good service . the practice is common at catalog , insurance and phone companies , banks and telemarketers , according to trade groups and worker organizations . it 's also widespread for reservations clerks in the airline , car-rental , hotel and railroad industries . the communications workers of america , which opposes such monitoring , says 0 supervisors listen in on an estimated 400 million calls each year . among companies saying 0 they monitor employees are united airlines , american airlines , united parcel service , nynex corp. , spiegel inc. , and the circulation department of this newspaper . some wall street firms monitor for recordkeeping purposes . dictaphone corp. says 0 there 's a big business demand for its voice-activated taping systems , whether the sophisticated veritrac 9000 system , which costs from $ 10,000 to $ 120,000 and can record 240 conversations simultaneously , or simple handheld units selling for $ 395 . businesses `` want to verify information and ensure accuracy , '' says 0 john hiltunen , dictaphone 's manager of media relations . the state of alaska recently bought the veritrac system , he says 0 , `` to monitor the exxon cleanup effort . '' merrill lynch & co. and shearson lehman hutton inc. say 0 they use voice-activated systems to record and verify orders between salesmen and traders . shearson says 0 it has taped some of its institutional trading desks , such as commodities and futures , for about four years . both companies stress that employees know 0 they are being recorded and that customer conversations are n't taped . kidder peabody & co. says 0 it monitors bond-trading conversations between brokers and customers to safeguard order accuracy . eavesdropping by individuals is harder 0 to measure . but devices are there for the asking , whether in stores or through the mail . the counter spy shop in washington , d.c. , for instance , offers the `` secret connection '' attache case , which can surreptitiously record conversations for nine hours at a stretch . that and other fancy gizmos may cost thousands , but simple voice-activated tape recorders sell for as little as $ 70 at electronics stores like radio shack . the most common use of spying devices is in divorce cases , say 0 private investigators . while tape recordings 0 to uncover , say , infidelity are n't admissible in court , they can mean leverage in a settlement . concerned with the increased availability of surveillance technology and heavier use of it , lawmakers have proposed laws addressing the issue . nine states have introduced bills requiring that workers and customers be made aware of monitoring . and four states -- california , florida , michigan and pennsylvania -- have adopted rules that all parties involved must consent when phone calls are recorded . two bills in congress hope to make such restrictions national . in may , rep. don edwards -lrb- d. calif . -rrb- introduced congressional legislation that would require an audible beeping during any employee monitoring , warning people that they are being heard . -lrb- the legislation is similar to a 1987 `` beeper bill '' that was defeated after heavy lobbying by the telemarketing industry . -rrb- also last spring , rep. ron dellums -lrb- d. , calif. -rrb- , introduced a bill requiring universal two-party consent to any tapings in cases that do n't involve law enforcement . in addition , products such as voice-activated tape recorders would have to include beep tones and labels explaining federal laws on eavesdropping . the outlook on both federal bills is uncertain , especially remembering the 1987 defeat . the aclu and worker organizations back tighter laws , but employers and device manufacturers object . `` i 'm sympathetic with workers who feel under the gun , '' says richard barton of the direct marketing association of america , which is lobbying strenuously against the edwards beeper bill . `` but the only way 0 you can find out how your people are doing is by listening . '' the powerful group , which represents many of the nation 's telemarketers , was instrumental in derailing the 1987 bill . spiegel also opposes the beeper bill , saying 0 the noise 0 it requires would interfere with customer orders , causing irritation and even errors . laura dale , center manager at the catalog company 's customer order center in reno , nev. , defends monitoring . `` we like to follow up and make sure 0 operators are achieving our standards of company service , '' says ms. dale , who supervises 350 operators . john bonomo , a nynex spokesman , says 0 the telephone company needs to monitor operators to evaluate performance during the first six months on the job . `` sometimes , '' he says , `` we 'll pull someone off the phones for more training . '' federal wiretap statutes recognize the right of employers to monitor employees ' for evaluation purposes . and in the past , congress has viewed monitoring as an issue best handled in union negotiations . but opponents , led by the cwa , say 0 new laws are needed because monitoring is heavily concentrated in service industries and 81 % of monitored workers are n't represented by unions . the cwa claims that monitoring not only infringes on employee privacy , but increases stress . `` nine to five , '' a cleveland-based office workers organization that supports the beeper bill , six months ago started a privacy hot line 0 to receive reports of alleged monitoring abuses . meanwhile , supporters of the dellums two-party consent bill say 0 it is needed because of a giant loophole in the one-party consent law . currently , if the person taping is a party to the conversation , it 's all right to record without the knowledge of the other person on the line . -lrb- intercepting other people 's private conversations is illegal and punishable by five years in prison and fines of $ 10,000 . -rrb- the electronics industry is closely following the dellums bill . some marketers of surveillance gear -- including communication control system ltd. , which owns the counter spy shop and others like it -- already put warning labels in their catalogs informing customers of the one-party law . but vendors contend that they ca n't control how their products are used . radio shack says 0 it has a policy against selling products if a salesperson suspects 0 they will be used illegally . `` everything sold at radio shack has a legal purpose , '' says bernard appel , president of the tandy corp. subsidiary . he says 0 he has n't yet studied the dellums bill , but that requiring a beeping tone on recorders `` would be ludicrous . '' still , radio shack is aware that some of its products are controversial . a few years ago , the company voluntarily stopped selling `` the big ear , '' a powerful microphone . with its ability to pick up rustlings and flapping wings , `` it was meant to be a toy for children for bird watching , '' says 0 mr. appel . `` but we were getting too many complaints that people were using them to eavesdrop on their neighbors . ''