if a tv weatherman gets butterflies facing the camera again after a questionable forecast , donald h. straszheim surely understands . the chief economist of merrill lynch & co. finds himself in such a position as he buzzes the midwest on his first road trip since backpedaling on a major prediction . mr. straszheim expects 0 he will take some heat , and he 's right . since the last time 0 he traveled this way several months ago , he has recanted a series of bold forecasts of a recession . in february 1988 , for example , merrill lynch 's weekly commentary announced that `` the economy is likely to fall into recession in early 1989 . '' the forecasts were widely disseminated , and , in a splashy ad campaign launched in the summer of 1988 , merrill lynch urged investors to buy bonds . it said 0 long-term interest rates , then above 9 % , could drop to 7 % by the end of 1989 , so bonds , which benefit from falling rates , would be a good buy . the firm also raised the percentage of bonds in its model portfolio from 40 % to 45 % and later to 55 % . but this september -- just when many market economists , including some at merrill lynch , believed that mr. straszheim was about to be proved right -- he took a detour if not a u-turn . he softened the talk about a recession . now , in fact , he is predicting economic growth of 2.9 % this year and 2.1 % next year , a more optimistic outlook than the consensus of some four dozen top forecasters surveyed by blue chip economic indicators newsletter . and , just recently , merrill lynch cut the recommended bondholdings back to 50 % . while such changes might sound minor , they are n't : merrill lynch manages or oversees some $ 300 billion in retail accounts that include everything from mutual funds to individual annuities . two well-known colleagues who believe 0 mr. straszheim was right the first time are david bostian jr. and a. gary shilling , both of whom run their own new york research firms . mr. bostian said in august that his macroeconomic index signaled recession . mr. shilling , who was merrill lynch 's chief economist from 1967 to 1971 , has heralded a recession for months . `` my own personal opinion is that don threw in the towel just about the time 0 he should have doubled his bet , '' he says . now a rocky stock market and weak corporate profits may further threaten the economy . and mr. straszheim conceded after a recent drop in manufacturing jobs that `` it may prove to be the case that we got whipsawed -- that we pulled the recession forecast at just the wrong time . '' he adds , `` that 's the forecasting business . '' however risky the business , it 's brisk these days . pestered by bosses , brokers , clients and media people and pushed by their own egos , wall street economists are forecasting about everything from broad economic trends to the dinkiest monthly indicator . but the surprisingly durable seven-year economic expansion has made mincemeat of more than one forecast . this is n't the quiet economic science practiced in the universities . this is the commercial version . carrying the new message on the road , mr. straszheim meets confrontation that often occurs in inverse proportion to the size of the client . no sophisticated professional expects economists to be right all the time . some smaller clients do n't seem to notice his switch . but with some clients , the talk can heat up a bit . dennis o'brien , the treasurer of commonwealth edison co. in chicago , adopts a polite approach , waiting for an opportunity to ask about the forecast . a good half-hour into breakfast at the palmer house , mr. o'brien looks up from his plate after mr. straszheim says something about people who believe 0 interest rates are about to nosedive . `` i 'm one of them who hope 0 they will , with $ 6 billion in debt on the books . is that the forecast ? '' mr. o'brien asks , trying to pin down the economist . he does n't fully succeed , although mr. straszheim lists an array of interest-rate scenarios . in a chilly conference room at alliance capital management in minneapolis , in contrast , the firm 's money managers seem ready to pin mr. straszheim to the wall . alfred harrison , the manager , shoves mr. straszheim 's handout back at him : `` do we want to go through this ? or can we ask you why you changed your forecast just when it 's about to be right ? '' swiveling in his chair , mr. straszheim replies that the new outlook , though still weak , does n't justify calling a recession right now . `` it 's all in this handout 0 you do n't want to look at . we could still have a recession '' at some point . one of mr. straszheim 's recurring themes is that the state of the economy is n't a simple black or white . sometimes , like now , it 's gray . this somewhat-ambiguous assessment moves one alliance portfolio manager to ask : `` so , what is this -- a stealth recession ? '' another challenges merrill lynch 's bond recommendation last year . `` we 're not running that ad campaign any more , '' mr. straszheim snaps in a rare show of irritation . he adds , `` i think 0 it was a fairly decent call . '' explaining his change of mind , mr. straszheim says later , `` it 's hard to pin this on one factor . '' he says 0 the economy , and especially the employment numbers , look much better than he expected ; interest rates have generally declined ; inflation has n't run amok . `` our business is constantly looking at all these things , '' he says . his new forecast calls for `` a soft landing . '' and it may be right , judging from last week 's report that inflation-adjusted gross national product rose at a 2.5 % annual rate in the third quarter . mr. shilling understands mr. straszheim 's problems . `` there 's unbelievable pressure on economists to forecast these numbers , '' he says . `` you make a forecast , and then you become its prisoner . '' it is indeed hard to back away from a widely publicized forecast , and mr. straszheim is fidgeting with the handcuffs on this trip . his approach to the recantation is direct but low-key . `` for some time , we had forecast negative third - and fourth-quarter growth . we pulled that forecast , '' he begins matter-of-factly in a meeting with piper , jaffray & hopwood inc. officials in minneapolis , the first stop .