september 's steep rise in producer prices shows that inflation still persists , and the pessimism over interest rates caused by the new price data contributed to the stock market 's plunge friday . after falling for three consecutive months , the producer price index for finished goods shot up 0.9 % last month , the labor department reported 0 friday , as energy prices jumped after tumbling through the summer . although the report , which was released before the stock market opened , did n't trigger the 190.58-point drop in the dow jones industrial average , analysts said 0 it did play a role in the market 's decline . analysts immediately viewed the price data , the grimmest inflation news in months , as evidence that the federal reserve was unlikely to allow interest rates to fall as many investors had hoped 0 . further fueling the belief that pressures in the economy were sufficient to keep the fed from easing credit , the commerce department reported friday that retail sales grew 0.5 % in september , to $ 145.21 billion . that rise came on top of a 0.7 % gain in august , and suggested 0 there is still healthy consumer demand in the economy . `` i think 0 the friday report , combined with the actions of the fed , weakened the belief that there was going to be an imminent easing of monetary policy , '' said robert dederick , chief economist at northern trust co. in chicago . but economists were divided over the extent of the inflation threat signaled by the new numbers . `` the overall 0.9 % increase is serious in itself , but what is even worse is that excluding food and energy , the producer price index still increased by 0.7 % , '' said gordon richards , an economist at the national association of manufacturers . but sung won sohn , chief economist at norwest corp. in minneapolis , blamed rising energy prices and the annual autumn increase in car prices for most of the september jump . `` i would say 0 this is not bad news ; this is a blip , '' he said . `` the core rate is not really out of line . '' all year , energy prices have skewed the producer price index , which measures changes in the prices 0 producers receive for goods . inflation unquestionably has fallen back from its torrid pace last winter , when a steep run-up in world oil prices sent the index surging at double-digit annual rates . energy prices then plummeted through the summer , causing the index to decline for three consecutive months . overall , the index has climbed at a 5.1 % compound annual rate since the start of the year , the labor department said 0 . while far more restrained than the pace at the beginning of the year , that is still a steeper rise than the 4.0 % increase for all of 1988 . moreover , this year 's good inflation news may have ended last month , when energy prices zoomed up 6.5 % after plunging 7.3 % in august . some analysts expect oil prices to remain relatively stable in the months ahead , leaving the future pace of inflation uncertain . analysts had expected that the climb in oil prices last month would lead to a substantial rise in the producer price index , but the 0.9 % climb was higher than most anticipated 0 . `` i think 0 the resurgence -lcb- in inflation -rcb- is going to continue for a few months , '' said john mueller , chief economist at bell mueller cannon , a washington economic forecasting firm . he predicted 0 that inflation will moderate next year , saying that credit conditions are fairly tight world-wide . but dirk van dongen , president of the national association of wholesaler-distributors , said that last month 's rise `` is n't as bad an omen '' as the 0.9 % figure suggests 0 . `` if you examine the data carefully , the increase is concentrated in energy and motor vehicle prices , rather than being a broad-based advance in the prices of consumer and industrial goods , '' he explained . passenger car prices jumped 3.8 % in september , after climbing 0.5 % in august and declining in the late spring and summer . many analysts said 0 the september increase was a one-time event , coming as dealers introduced their 1990 models . although all the price data were adjusted for normal seasonal fluctuations , car prices rose beyond the customary autumn increase . prices for capital equipment rose a hefty 1.1 % in september , while prices for home electronic equipment fell 1.1 % . food prices declined 0.6 % , after climbing 0.3 % in august . meanwhile , the retail sales report showed that car sales rose 0.8 % in september to $ 32.82 billion . but at least part of the increase could have come from higher prices , analysts said 0 . sales at general merchandise stores rose 1.7 % after declining 0.6 % in august , while sales of building materials fell 1.8 % after rising 1.7 % . producer prices for intermediate goods grew 0.4 % in september , after dropping for three consecutive months . prices for crude goods , an array of raw materials , jumped 1.1 % after declining 1.9 % in august and edging up 0.2 % in july . here are the labor department 's producer price indexes -lrb- 1982 = 100 -rrb- for september , before seasonal adjustment , and the percentage changes from september , 1988 .