`` the new crowd '' by judith ramsey ehrlich and barry j. rehfeld -lrb- little , brown , 444 pages , $ 19.95 -rrb- , describes the displacing of the old `` our crowd '' jewish wall street banking grandees by such new business barons as saul steinberg , carl icahn , sanford weill and bruce wasserstein . its many lively stories include the gutfreund-postel holiday cheer imbroglio . these two new crowd families lived in the same apartment building , with the postel penthouse perched on top of the gutfreund duplex . the penthouse elevator started up from the gutfreund landing , and susan gutfreund used to turn off its light , to give the impression that there was no higher floor . eventually , mr. postel broke his toe in the dark . then the gutfreunds determined to put up a 22-foot christmas tree , weighing a quarter of a ton , to amaze their holiday guests . for this , a crane needed to be mounted on the postels ' terrace . the postels did not give permission . but the gutfreund workers went ahead anyway , only to be captured `` in flagrante '' by joan postel , who called the police . before the gutfreunds finally left this unfriendly environment for a prodigious duplex on fifth avenue and an 18th-century mansion with a specially excavated $ 1 million garage in paris , the postels had obtained an injunction 0 to prevent any future hoisting of trees , and in a neighborly spirit hit both the gutfreunds and the building with a $ 35 million lawsuit . nothing less , it seemed 0 , could console them for their traumas . where had all the money come from ? the young john gutfreund had been discovered by billy salomon of salomon bros. when he was still a bearded liberal , and put to work as a trader , and then as a rough-and-tumble syndicator . `` ` get off your ... , ' he would bellow , '' say the authors . rising in the firm , he became powerful and bland , though his new wife , susan , made him shine in the gossip columns with her profligate spending habits and flamboyant frocks . after he had been head of the company for 3 1\/2 years , he and his partners sold it to phibro , a powerful commodity trading outfit , for $ 550 million in phibro stock . limited partner billy salomon , whose family name had been on the firm 's door for 70 years and who had hoped 0 it would be there forever , was not consulted . mr. gutfreund collected $ 32 million , while billy salomon got $ 10 million , much less than if he had conducted the sale . `` i felt betrayed , '' he later said . worse , salomon 's timing had been off . its profits , unlike phibro 's , soared over the next two years , and had it held out , salomon could have gotten an even bigger bundle . the book also recounts the not dissimilar maneuvers surrounding the changing of the guard at lehman bros. and other grand old firms . often the genteel , conservative , long-term-oriented investment bankers were displaced by crude traders : `` when angered , he cursed so forcefully that his face reddened and his pale-blue eyes narrowed into tiny slits , '' the authors say of lehman 's lewis glucksman . the earlier generation of `` our crowd '' bankers -- belmonts , warburgs , lehmans , baches and schiffs -- had stressed above all probity , tradition , continuity and reputation . they were old-fashioned elegant gentlemen , who happened to be of german jewish extraction . but in the harsh world of today 's wall street they have lost out to more aggressive and sometimes less scrupulous successors . the cuckoo prefers the nests of other birds and heaves out their eggs . but the old guard hired the new crowd people : it brought in its own cuckoos . so , as the old crowd toppled from the branch , it should n't have been too surprised . the old guard had every right , however , to disdain the newcomers ' new ways of making money , such as greenmail . -lrb- a fortune article on saul steinberg was entitled , `` fear and loathing in the corporate boardrooms . '' -rrb- their other staple has been corporate takeovers , often hostile and financed by junk bonds . hostile takeovers are quite a new phenomenon . sometimes they are constructive , but often not . first , by making management focus on short-term results , they inhibit building for the future -- just the opposite of japan . second , a long-term shareholder of a good company need n't worry too much when the stock price drops temporarily : it will bounce back . but if a raider takes over when the stock is weak , the shareholder never gets his recovery . the raiders , meanwhile , have evolved their own pattern for spending their new millions . as described in `` the new crowd , '' they take on ambitious new wives , move to greenwich , conn. , or bedford , n.y. , buy ok pictures , and let their wives share the wealth with decorators . having donated heavily to museums , they demand a place on their boards . the book is patronizing about this nouveau riche struggle for respectability , which has its tawdry aspects . however , on balance , the charity game helps america . if those who have the money do n't get involved with the museums and the charities , then city hall will do it , badly . it has been rightly observed that the main thing wrong with tainted money is , 0 t' ai nt enough of it . a handful of the new crowd operators have crossed the line from the immoral to the illegal , and have ended up in the slammer or paying huge fines : ivan boesky , dennis levine , martin siegel , victor and steven posner , and now michael milken and perhaps leona helmsley . the glitzy office that ivan boesky vacated for a prison cell had previously contained commodity operators marc rich and `` pinky '' green , today fugitives from a potential century apiece of jail sentences . the old crowd is deeply concerned by the backlash from all this . however , the phenomenon is not specifically jewish . it has always been true that those outside the club want to climb in , and that a few will cut corners in the process . some pretty seamy stuff built the turn-of-the-century families ' fifth avenue and newport palazzi and endowed their daughters ' weddings to foreign noblemen . mr. boesky was a piker compared to jay gould and jim fiske , and commodore vanderbilt thought nothing of bribing judges and legislators . so who knows ? in a generation or two some of the new crowd may attain true respectability , perhaps to be displaced in turn by a later flock of unscrupulous raptors . or perhaps wall street , when it has suffered enough , will realize that finance is a service industry , and change its ethos . mr. train is president of train , smith investment counsel , new york .