california thefts make travel agents jittery being a travel agent used to be pretty glamorous . now it 's getting downright dangerous . in recent months , more than 25 agencies have been robbed , compared with only a handful all last year , according to police and travel-agency groups . most of the cases have been in california , where one agent was stabbed and another was shot and killed . los angeles police say 0 the thieves seem to be part of a crime network that knows how to convert blank tickets into real ones . already , the stolen tickets have been used for flights all over the world . so far , the thieves have stolen 3,632 blank tickets , according to airline reporting corp. , a ticket processing center . police say 0 the robberies are usually pulled off by two to five men , who walk into the agencies near closing or lunch time , when few employees are there . `` they looked like ordinary vacationers at first , '' says willy llerena , owner of travel air service in monte bello , calif. , describing five men who entered his agency last june . but then , he says 0 , they put two loaded pistols to his temple and demanded 0 he open the safe . when he initially refused , he says 0 , they stabbed him in the back and made off with $ 2,000 and 280 blank tickets . `` they said 0 they wanted to show me how serious they were , '' he says . as word of the crime spree has spread , many agents have started changing their open-door policies . at el monte travel center in el monte , calif. , customers now can get in only through a buzzer and lock system . `` it 's hard to deal with clients this way in a service business , '' says ralph `` bud '' conner , owner of the agency , which was robbed of 180 blank tickets and $ 850 last month . `` but we 're just too nervous . '' the robberies also have set off a controversy involving the airlines . agents say 0 airlines , which track ticket numbers of all stolen tickets , should be doing more to catch the thieves by confiscating the tickets when they 're used . `` they have the most sophisticated computers in the world , '' says mr. llerena . `` they ought to be able to do this . '' but airlines say 0 it would be too expensive and cause too many delays if they started using computerized scanners to check tickets at the gate . texans get reasonable car rental insurance consumer advocates have long claimed that car rental companies charge too much for car rental insurance . now , a new law in texas seems to be providing the proof . the law -- the first of its kind -- requires car rental companies in texas to charge only `` reasonable '' rates for collision-damage waiver insurance . specifically , the law says 0 the rates must closely reflect what the company 's actual expenses have been to replace damaged cars . before the law went into effect last month , car rental companies were charging as much as $ 12 a day for the waiver in texas . now , they 're charging as little $ 3 a day . `` if they 're telling the truth now , then they 've been charging 300 % more than what is reasonable , '' says steve gardner , an assistant state attorney general in texas . a spokesman for hertz corp. acknowledges , `` the waiver is n't a source of protection for consumers , but a source of revenue . '' but hertz points out that at least it 's now charging only $ 3.95 a day in texas , while some competitors are charging $ 6.99 . the state attorney general 's office is investigating rental car agencies charging noticeably higher prices . flight attendants lag before jets even land if your flight attendant seems a little weary , it may be because he or she has been working 20 straight hours . a recent study for the federal aviation administration found that major airlines sometimes make flight attendants work 16 hours or more straight -- despite union contracts at some airlines limiting duty time to 14 hours . some flight attendants on charter planes are putting in 20-hour work days , the study found 0 . this happens because the faa does n't have any rules on duty time for flight attendants ; by contrast , it strictly restricts duty time for pilots and air traffic controllers , usually to a maximum of 10 consecutive hours . `` as far as the faa is concerned , '' says matt finucane , air safety director at the association of flight attendants , `` flight attendants can work an unlimited number of hours . '' experts say 0 such long hours for attendants pose a safety risk . for instance , tired flight attendants might not react quickly enough during an emergency evacuation . `` at the end of their day , they are zombies , '' says john galipault , president of the aviation safety institute , a public-interest group in worthington , ohio . `` they have to work such long hours and then we expect them to be heroes if there 's an evacuation . '' in response to the study , the faa says 0 it is considering changing its policy -- or lack of it -- on flight attendants . the agency may not have much choice : a congressional bill has been introduced that would force the agency to limit flight attendant duty time to 14 hours on u.s. flights and 16 hours on international trips . odds and ends golf has become the latest diversion for travelers stuck at some airports . simulated golf games , in which players hit golf balls into nets , have been installed at airports in denver and pittsburgh ... . the average cost for breakfast at a `` decent '' hotel restaurant in new york is $ 17.12 , according to corporate travel magazine . the cheapest , among 100 cities surveyed , was $ 5.11 in el paso , texas .