now you see it , now you do n't . the recession , that is . the economy 's stutter steps leave investors wondering whether things are slowing down or speeding up . so often are government statistics revised that they seem to resemble a spinning weather vane . for the past seven years , investors have had the wind at their backs , in the form of a generally growing economy . some may have forgotten -- and some younger ones may never have experienced -- what it 's like to invest during a recession . different tactics are called for , as losing money becomes easier and making money becomes tougher . for those investors who believe -- or fear -- that 1990 will be a recession year , many economists and money managers agree on steps that can be taken to lower the risks in a portfolio . in a nutshell , pros advise investors who expect a slowdown to hold fewer stocks than usual and to favor shares of big companies in `` defensive '' industries . a heavy dose of cash is prescribed , along with a heavier-than-usual allotment to bonds -- preferably government bonds . it 's tempting to think 0 these defensive steps can be delayed until a recession is clearly at hand . but that may not be possible , because recessions often take investors by surprise . `` they always seem to come a bit later than you expect . when they do hit , they hit fast , '' says david a. wyss , chief financial economist at the data resources division of mcgraw-hill inc . though he himself does n't expect a recession soon , mr. wyss advises people who do that `` the best thing 0 to be in is long that is , 20-year to 30-year treasury bonds . '' the reason is simple , mr. wyss says 0 : `` interest rates almost always decline during recession . '' as surely as a seesaw tilts , falling interest rates force up the price of previously issued bonds . they are worth more because they pay higher interest than newly issued bonds do . that effect holds true for both short-term and long-term bonds . but short-term bonds ca n't rise too much , because everyone knows 0 they will be redeemed at a preset price fairly soon . long-term bonds , with many years left before maturity , swing more widely in price . but not just any bonds will do . corporate bonds `` are usually not a good bet in a recession , '' mr. wyss says . as times get tougher , investors fret about whether companies will have enough money 0 to pay their debts . this hurts the price of corporate bonds . also , he notes 0 , `` most corporate bonds are callable . '' that means that a corporation , after a specified amount of time has passed , can buy back its bonds by paying investors the face value -lrb- plus , in some cases , a sweetener -rrb- . when interest rates have dropped , it makes sense for corporations to do just that ; they then save on interest costs . but the investors are left stranded with money 0 to reinvest at a time when interest rates are puny . if corporate bonds are bad in recessions , junk bonds are likely to be the worst of all . it 's an `` absolute necessity '' to get out of junk bonds when a recession is in the offing , says 0 avner arbel , professor of finance at cornell university . `` such bonds are very sensitive to the downside , and this could be a disaster . '' municipal bonds are generally a bit safer than corporate bonds in a recession , but not as safe as bonds issued by the federal government . during an economic slump , local tax revenues often go down , raising the risks associated with at least some municipals . and , like corporates , many municipal bonds are callable . but a few experts , going against the consensus , do n't think 0 bonds would help investors even if a recession is in the offing . one of these is jeffrey l. beach , director of research for underwood neuhaus & co. , a brokerage house in houston , who thinks that `` we 're either in a recession or about to go into one . '' what 's more , he thinks 0 this could be a nastier recession than usual : `` once the downturn comes , it 's going to be very hard 0 to reverse . '' investors , he advises 0 , `` should be cautious , '' holding fewer stocks than usual and also shunning bonds . because he sees a `` 5 % to 6 % base rate of inflation in the economy , '' he doubts that interest rates will fall much any time soon . instead , mr. beach says 0 , investors `` probably should be carrying a very high level of cash , '' by which he means such so-called cash equivalents as money-market funds and treasury bills . greg confair , president of sigma financial inc. in allentown , pa. , also recommends that investors go heavily for cash . he is n't sure 0 a recession is coming , but says 0 the other likely alternative -- reignited inflation -- is just as bad . `` this late in an expansion , '' the economy tends to veer off either into damaging inflation or into a recession , mr. confair says 0 . the federal reserve board 's plan for a `` soft landing , '' he says 0 , requires the fed to navigate `` an ever-narrowing corridor . '' a soft landing is n't something that can be achieved once and for all , mr. confair adds 0 . it has to be engineered over and over again , month after month . he believes that the task facing fed chairman alan greenspan is so difficult that it resembles `` juggling a double-bladed ax and a buzz saw . '' and , in a sense , that 's the kind of task 0 individuals face in deciding what to do about stocks -- the mainstay of most serious investors ' portfolios . it comes down to a question of whether to try to `` time '' the market . for people who can ride out market waves through good times and bad , stocks have been rewarding long-term investments . most studies show that buy-and-hold investors historically have earned an annual return from stocks of 9 % to 10 % , including both dividends and price appreciation . that 's well above what bonds or bank certificates have paid . moreover , because no one knows for sure just when a recession is coming , some analysts think 0 investors should n't even worry too much about timing . `` trying to time the economy is a mistake , '' says david katz , chief investment officer of value matrix management inc. in new york . mr. katz notes that some economists have been predicting a recession for at least two years . investors who listened , and lightened up on stocks , `` have just hurt themselves , '' he says 0 . mr. katz adds that people who jump in and out of the stock market need to be right about 70 % of the time to beat a buy-and-hold strategy . frequent trading runs up high commission costs . and the in-and-outer might miss the sudden spurts that account for much of the stock market 's gains over time . still , few investors are able to sit tight when they are convinced 0 a recession is coming . after all , in all five recessions since 1960 , stocks declined . according to ned davis , president of ned davis research inc. in nokomis , fla. , the average drop in the dow jones industrial average was about 21 % , and the decrease began an average of six months before a recession officially started . by the time 0 a recession is `` official '' -lrb- two consecutive quarters of declining gross national product -rrb- , much of the damage to stocks has already been done - and , in the typical case , the recession is already half over . about six months before a recession ends , stocks typically begin to rise again , as investors anticipate a recovery . the average recession lasts about a year . unfortunately , though , recessions vary enough in length so that the average ca n't reliably be used to guide investors in timing stock sales or purchases . but whatever their advice about timing , none of these experts recommend jettisoning stocks entirely during a recession . for the portion of an investor 's portfolio that stays in stocks , professionals have a number of suggestions . mr. katz advocates issues with low price-earnings ratios -- that is , low prices in relation to the company 's earnings per share . `` low p-e '' stocks , he says 0 , vastly outperform others `` during a recession or bear market . '' in good times , he says 0 , they lag a bit , but overall they provide superior performance . prof. arbel urges investors to discard stocks in small companies . small-company shares typically fall more than big-company stocks in a recession , he says 0 . and in any case , he argues 0 , stocks of small companies are `` almost as overpriced as they were sept. 30 , 1987 , just before the crash . '' for example , mr. arbel says 0 , stocks of small companies are selling for about 19 times cash flow . -lrb- cash flow , basically earnings plus depreciation , is one common gauge of a company 's financial health . -rrb- that ratio is dangerously close to the ratio of 19.7 that prevailed before the 1987 stock-market crash , mr. arbel says 0 . and it 's way above the ratio -lrb- 7.5 times cash flow -rrb- that bigger companies are selling for . another major trick in making a portfolio recession-resistant is choosing stocks in `` defensive '' industries . food , tobacco , drugs and utilities are the classic examples . recession or not , people still eat , smoke , and take medicine when they 're sick . george putnam iii , editor of turnaround letter in boston , offers one final tip for recession-wary investors . `` keep some money available for opportunities , '' he says . `` if the recession does hit , there will be some great investment opportunities just when things seem the blackest . '' mr. dorfman covers investing issues from the wall street journal 's new york bureau . some industry groups consistently weather the storm better than others . the following shows the number of times 0 these industries outperformed the standard & poor 's 500-stock index during the first six months of the past seven recessions .