we 're sorry to report that on monday president bush accepted the resignation of william allen as chairman of the u.s. civil rights commission . mr. allen , appointed by president reagan , grew understandably tired of dealing with the guerrilla tactics of his enemies . his recent speech , provocatively titled `` blacks ? animals ? homosexuals ? what is a minority ? '' caused an uproar when its title leaked out . mr. allen 's commissioners voted to call his unread speech `` thoughtless , disgusting and unnecessarily inflammatory . '' commissioner mary francis berry said 0 it was `` another sad episode in the saga of the unguided missile who is chairman . '' rep. don edwards , the california democrat , warned mr. allen that the speech would be `` outside the scope of the commission 's jurisdiction . '' thomas stoddard , head of the lambda legal defense fund , called the prospect of the speech `` frankly shocking . '' we 've actually read the speech . mr. allen began it with a warning to his hosts , a california church group that opposes rights for homosexuals . he said that other participants in the conference `` do not believe that the rights of americans should be guaranteed to citizens who are homosexual , '' but that `` i mean to persuade you to the opposite view . '' he recalled to the audience a `` strange , infelicitous '' analogy 0 he once heard arguing `` 0 now that we have finally recognized that american blacks have rights , we need to do the same for animals . '' mr. allen objected to this analogy because it seems to `` assimilate the status of blacks to that of animals -- as a mere project of charity , of humaneness . '' rights on such a basis , whether for blacks or homosexuals , are `` mere indulgences , '' he said 0 , subject to being taken back . he says 0 the title of his speech was to make his point that americans have rights as individuals , not as members of certain select groups . his speech criticized the `` idiocy of notions of protected groups in society '' as opposed to individual equality or , as he put it , in `` a common destiny as americans . '' instead of lobbying for special treatment , mr. allen said that homosexuals and others should try to ensure equal treatment under the law and not aim for special privileges that would risk `` invidious retrenchment with government complicity . '' this hardly sounds like an anti-homosexual screed . what 's really going on here ? the three most important things 0 to understand about mr. allen is that he is a black conservative intellectual -- a triple threat to the liberal establishment . mr. allen , who teaches government at prestigious harvey mudd college in california and will remain a member of the commission , has spent years arguing that civil rights are individuals ' rights . he last made waves when he dared to defend an indian girl who had been adopted by non-indian parents off her reservation . mr. allen quickly ran up against the liberal establishment again , which somehow elevated the vague concept of `` indian rights '' above the rights of individual indians . there is a huge divide between mr. allen 's we're-all-in-this-together view and the divisive litigation approach of the civil rights groups . indeed , the gap is so large that mr. allen 's critics refuse to engage the debate . their ridicule of him is no substitute for argument . their effort to run him out of washington is an embarrassment to the original purpose of their own movement . we hope 0 the next head of the civil rights commission will be as brave as mr. allen in making the case for equality of civil rights .