armstrong world industries inc. agreed in principle to sell its carpet operations to shaw industries inc . the price was n't disclosed but one analyst estimated that it was $ 150 million . armstrong , which has faced a takeover threat from the belzberg family of canada since july , said that disposing of the carpet business would improve `` total financial performance . '' the move also would allow the company to concentrate on core businesses , which include ceramic tile , floor coverings and furniture . moreover , such a sale could help armstrong reassure its investors and deter the belzbergs , who own a 9.85 % stake in the lancaster , pa. , company . analysts expect armstrong to use proceeds of the sale to reduce debt , buy back stock or perhaps finance an acquisition . the carpet division had 1988 sales of $ 368.3 million , or almost 14 % of armstrong 's $ 2.68 billion total revenue . the company has been manufacturing carpet since 1967 . recently it upgraded its plants so that it could make stain-resistant products with higher quality dyes . for the past year or two , the carpet division 's operating profit margins have hovered around 5 % , high by industry standards , but disappointing compared with the 13 % to 19 % margins for two of armstrong 's chief businesses , flooring and building products . analysts hailed the planned transaction as being beneficial to armstrong and shaw , the market leader in the u.s. carpet industry , with an estimated 17 % to 20 % share . shaw , based in dalton , ga. , has annual sales of about $ 1.18 billion , and has economies of scale and lower raw-material costs that are expected to boost the profitability of armstrong 's brands , sold under the armstrong and evans-black names . yesterday , in composite trading on the new york stock exchange , shaw 's shares closed ex-dividend at $ 26.125 , up $ 2.25 . armstrong 's shares , also listed on the big board , closed at $ 39.125 , up 12.5 cents . yesterday , armstrong reported flat earnings for the third quarter and nine months , worsened by the stock dilution of an employee stock ownership plan adopted earlier this year . for the quarter , earnings were $ 47 million , or 92 cents a share , including a one-time gain of $ 5.9 million . in the year-ago quarter , earnings were $ 42.9 million , or 93 cents a share . yesterday , armstrong announced an agreement to sell its small applied color systems unit to a subsidiary of the swiss company , brauerei eichof ltd . the price was n't disclosed . armstrong expects to close the sale of the color unit in late november and the carpet sale in december , with the gains to be applied to fourth quarter or first-quarter results .