medical scientists are starting to uncover a handful of genes which , if damaged , unleash the chaotic growth of cells that characterizes cancer . scientists say 0 the discovery of these genes in recent months is painting a new and startling picture of how cancer develops . an emerging understanding of the genes is expected to produce an array of new strategies for future cancer treatment and prevention . that is for the future . already , scientists are developing tests based on the newly identified genes that , for the first time , can predict whether an otherwise healthy individual is likely to get cancer . `` it 's a super-exciting set of discoveries , '' says bert vogelstein , a johns hopkins university researcher who has just found a gene pivotal to the triggering of colon cancer . `` only a decade ago cancer was a black box about which we knew nothing at the molecular level . today , we know that the accumulation of several of these altered genes can initiate a cancer and , then , propel it into a deadly state . '' scientists call the new class of genes tumor-suppressors , or simply anti-cancer genes . when functioning normally , they make proteins that hold a cell 's growth in check . but if the genes are damaged -- perhaps by radiation , a chemical or through a chance accident in cell division -- their growth-suppressing proteins no longer work , and cells normally under control turn malignant . the newly identified genes differ from a family of genes discovered in the early 1980s called oncogenes . oncogenes must be present for a cell to become malignant , but researchers have found them in normal as well as in cancerous cells , suggesting that oncogenes do n't cause cancer by themselves . in recent months , researchers have come to believe 0 the two types of cancer genes work in concert : an oncogene may turn proliferating cells malignant only after the tumor-suppressor gene has been damaged . like all genes , tumor-suppressor genes are inherited in two copies , one from each parent . either copy can make the proteins needed to control cell growth , so for cancer to arise , both copies must be impaired . a person who is born with one defective copy of a suppressor gene , or in whom one copy is damaged early in life , is especially prone to cancer because he need only lose the other copy for a cancer to develop . emerging genetic tests will be able to spot such cancer-susceptible individuals , ushering in what some scientists believe 0 is a new age of predictive cancer diagnosis . bill and bonnie quinlan are among the first beneficiaries of the new findings . the dedham , mass. , couple knew even before bonnie became pregnant in 1987 that any child of theirs had a 50 % chance of being at risk for retinoblastoma , an eye cancer that occurs about once every 20,000 births . mr. quinlan , 30 years old , knew 0 he carried a damaged gene , having lost an eye to the rare tumor when he was only two months old -- after his mother had suffered the same fate when she was a baby . because of the isolation of the retinoblastoma tumor-suppressor gene , it became possible last january to find out what threat the quinlan baby faced . a test using new `` genetic probes '' showed that little will quinlan had not inherited a damaged retinoblastoma supressor gene and , therefore , faced no more risk than other children of developing the rare cancer . `` it made our new year , '' says mr. quinlan . this test was the first 0 to predict reliably whether an individual could expect to develop cancer . equally important , the initial discovery of the gene that controls retinal cell growth , made by a boston doctor named thaddeus dryja , has opened a field of cancer study , which in recent months has exploded . `` it turns out that studying a tragic but uncommon tumor made possible some fundamental insights about the most basic workings of cancer , '' says samuel broder , director of the national cancer institute . `` all this may not be obvious to the public , which is concerned about advances in treatment , but i am convinced 0 this basic research will begin showing results there soon . '' to date , scientists have fingered two of these cancer-suppressors . dr. dryja made his retinoblastoma discovery in 1986 . then last spring , researchers reported finding a gene called p53 which , if impaired , turns healthy colon cells cancerous . soon after that report , two other research teams uncovered evidence that the same damaged p53 gene is present in tissue from lung and breast cancers . colon , lung and breast cancers are the most common and lethal forms of the disease , collectively killing almost 200,000 americans a year . right now about a dozen laboratories , in the u.s. , canada and britain , are racing to unmask other suspected tumor-suppressing genes . they have about seven candidates . researchers say 0 the inactivation of tumor-suppressor genes , alone or in combination , appears crucial to the development of such scourges as cancer of the brain , the skin , kidney , prostate , and cervix . there is evidence that if people inherit defective versions of these genes , they are especially prone to cancer , perhaps explaining , finally , why some cancers seem to haunt certain families . the story of tumor-suppressor genes goes back to the 1970s , when a pediatrician named alfred g. knudson jr. proposed that retinoblastoma stemmed from two separate genetic defects . he theorized that in the eye cancer , an infant inherited a damaged copy of a gene from one parent and a normal copy from the other . the tumor , he suggested 0 , developed when the second , normal copy also was damaged . but there was no way 0 to prove dr. knudson 's `` two-hit '' theory . back then , scientists had no way of ferreting out specific genes , but under a microscope they could see the 23 pairs of chromosomes in the cells that contain the genes . occasionally , gross chromosome damage was visible . dr. knudson found that some children with the eye cancer had inherited a damaged copy of chromosome no. 13 from a parent who had had the disease . under a microscope he could actually see that a bit of chromosome 13 was missing . he assumed 0 the missing piece contained a gene or genes whose loss had a critical role in setting off the cancer . but he did n't know which gene or genes had disappeared . then , a scientific team led by molecular geneticist webster cavenee , then at the university of utah , found the answer . the team used a battery of the newly developed `` gene probes , '' snippets of genetic material that can track a gene 's presence in a cell . by analyzing cells extracted from eye tumors , they found defects in the second copy of chromosome 13 in the exact area as in the first copy of the chromosome . the finding riveted medicine . it was the first time 0 anyone had showed that the loss of both copies of the same gene could lead to the eruption of a cancer . `` it was extraordinarily satisfying , '' says dr. knudson , now at fox chase cancer research center in philadelphia . `` i was convinced that what was true of retinoblastoma would be true for all cancers . '' it was an audacious claim . but in baltimore , dr. vogelstein , a young molecular biologist at johns hopkins medical school , believed 0 dr. knudson was right , and set out to repeat the cavenee experiment in cells from other cancers . his was one of two research teams in 1984 0 to report dual chromosome losses for a rare childhood cancer of the kidney called wilm 's tumor . dr. vogelstein next turned his attention to colon cancer , the second biggest cancer killer in the u.s. after lung cancer . he believed 0 colon cancer might also arise from multiple `` hits '' on cancer suppressor genes , because it often seems to develop in stages . it often is preceded by the development of polyps in the bowel , which in some cases become increasingly malignant in identifiable stages -- progressing from less severe to deadly -- as though a cascade of genetic damage might be occurring . dr. vogelstein and a doctoral student , eric fearon , began months of tedious and often frustrating probing of the chromosomes searching for signs of genetic damage . they began uncovering a confusing variety of genetic deletions , some existing only in benign polyps , others in malignant cells and many in both polyps and malignant cells . gradually , a coherent picture of cancer development emerged . if both copies of a certain gene were knocked out , benign polyps would develop . if both copies of a second gene were then deleted , the polyps would progress to malignancy . it was clear that more than one gene had to be damaged for colon cancer to develop . their report galvanized other molecular biologists . `` it was the confirming evidence 0 we all needed that -lcb- gene -rcb- losses were critical to the development of a common tumor , '' says ray white at howard hughes medical institute in salt lake city . but dr. vogelstein had yet to nail the identity of the gene that , if damaged , flipped a colon cell into full-blown malignancy . they focused on chromosome 17 . for months the johns hopkins researchers , using gene probes , experimentally crawled down the length of chromosome 17 , looking for the smallest common bit of genetic material lost in all tumor cells . such a piece of dna would probably constitute a gene . when they found it last winter , dr. vogelstein was dubious that the search was over . his doubts stemmed from the fact that several years earlier a princeton university researcher , arnold levine , had found in experiments with mice that a gene called p53 could transform normal cells into cancerous ones . the deletion 0 dr. vogelstein found was in exactly the same spot as p53 . but mr. levine had said 0 the p53 gene caused cancer by promoting growth , whereas the johns hopkins scientists were looking for a gene that suppressed growth . despite that , when the johns hopkins scientists compared the gene 0 they had found in the human cancer cells with the mr. levine 's p53 gene they found 0 the two were identical ; it turned out that in mr. levine 's cancer studies , he had unknowingly been observing a damaged form of p53 -- a cancer-suppressing gene . the discovery `` suddenly puts an obscure gene right in the cockpit of cancer formation , '' says 0 robert weinberg , a leader in cancer-gene research at whitehead institute in cambridge , mass . evidence now is emerging that the p53 suppressor gene is involved in other cancers , too . researchers in edinburgh , scotland , have found that in 23 of 38 breast tumors , one copy of chromosome 17 was mutated at the spot where gene p53 lies . the scientists say that since breast cancer often strikes multiple members of certain families , the gene , when inherited in a damaged form , may predispose women to the cancer . the p53 gene has just been implicated in lung cancer . in a report out last week , john minna and colleagues at the national cancer institute say that about half the cells taken from lung cancer tissue 0 they tested are missing this gene . there also are reports from several labs , as yet unpublished , of missing p53 genes in tissue taken from kidney , brain and skin cancers . at the same time , the johns hopkins team and others are rushing to pinpoint other tumor-suppressor genes . dr. vogelstein hopes soon to isolate one on chromosome 18 , also involved in colon cancer . ray white in utah and walter bodmer , a researcher in great britain , are close to finding another gene involved with some types of colon cancer , thought to be on chromosome 5 . dr. minna believes 0 people who inherit a defective gene somewhere on one of their two copies of chromosome 3 are especially prone to lung cancer . recently , he and others reported that the retinoblastoma suppressor gene may also be involved in some lung cancers , as well as several other more common cancers , too . where these discoveries will lead , scientists can only speculate . already two major pharmaceutical companies , the squibb unit of bristol-myers squibb co. and hoffmann-la roche inc. , are collaborating with gene hunters to turn the anticipated cascade of discoveries into predictive tests and , maybe , new therapies . some researchers say 0 new cancer drugs 0 to slow or reverse tumor growth may be based on the suppressor proteins normally produced by the genes . the idea would be to administer to patients the growth-controlling proteins made by healthy versions of the damaged genes . it may even be possible to replace defective genes with healthy versions , though no one has come close to doing that so far . in any case , says 0 dr. minna of the national cancer institute , `` we 're witnessing the discovery of one of the most important steps in the genesis of cancer .