friday 's 190-point plunge in stocks does not come atop the climate of anxiety that dominated financial markets just prior to their 1987 october crash , and mechanisms have been put in place to keep markets more orderly . still , the lesson is about the same : on friday the 13th , the market was spooked by washington . the consensus along the street seems to be that the plunge was triggered by the financing problems of the ual takeover , and it 's certainly true 0 the rout began immediately after the ual trading halt . still , the consensus seems almost as wide that one faltering bid is no reason 0 to write down the value of all u.s. business . this observation leads us to another piece of news moving on the dow jones ticker shortly before the downturn : the success of senate democrats in stalling the capital gains tax cut . the real value of all shares , after all , is directly impacted by the tax on any profits -lrb- all the more so given the limits on deductions for losses that show 0 gains are not `` ordinary income '' -rrb- . and market expectations clearly have been raised by the capital gains victory in the house last month . an hour before friday 's plunge , that provision was stripped from the tax bill , leaving it with $ 5.4 billion in tax increases without a capital gains cut . there is a great deal 0 to be said , to be sure , for stripping the garbage out of the reconciliation bill . it would be a good thing if congress started to decide issues one-by-one on their individual merits without trickery . for one thing , no one doubts that the capital gains cut would pass on an up-or-down vote . since senate leaders have so far fogged it up with procedural smokescreens , promises of a cleaner bill are suspect . especially so since president bush has been weakened by the panama fiasco . to the extent that the ual troubles contributed to the plunge , they are another instance of washington 's sticky fingers . as the best opportunities for corporate restructurings are exhausted of course , at some point the market will start to reject them . but the airlines are scarcely a clear case , given anti-takeover mischief by secretary of transportation skinner , who professes to believe 0 safety will be compromised if klm and british airways own interests in companies that fly airplanes . worse , congress has started to jump on the skinner bandwagon . james oberstar , the minnesota democrat who chairs the public works and transportation committee 's aviation subcommittee , has put an anti-airline takeover bill on supersonic speed so that it would be passed in time to affect the american and united air lines bids . it would give mr. skinner up to 50 days to `` review '' any bid for 15 % or more of the voting stock of any u.s. carrier with revenues of $ 1 billion or more . so the ual deal has problems , and the market loses 190 points . congratulations , mr. secretary and mr. congressman . in the 1987 crash , remember , the market was shaken by a danny rostenkowski proposal to tax takeovers out of existance . even more important , in our view , was the treasury 's threat to thrash the dollar . the treasury is doing the same thing today ; thankfully , the dollar is not under 1987-style pressure . also , traders are in better shape today than in 1987 to survive selling binges . they are better capitalized . they are in less danger of losing liquidity simply because of tape lags and clearing and settlement delays . the fed promises any needed liquidity . the big board 's liaison with the chicago board of trade has improved ; it will be interesting to learn if `` circuit breakers '' prove to be a good idea . in any event , some traders see stocks as underpriced today , unlike 1987 . there is nothing wrong with the market that ca n't be cured by a little coherence and common sense in washington . but on the bearish side , that may be too much 0 to expect .