in bombay stock market circles , the buzzword is `` mega . '' at least 40 companies are coming to the capital market to raise $ 6 billion , an amount never thought possible in india . `` when they talk mega-issues , they 're truly talking mega , '' says s.a. dave , chairman of the securities and exchange board of india . `` the capital market is booming . '' but the mega-issues are raising megaquestions about the rapidly evolving indian capital market . one is whether there is enough money to fund the new issues without depressing stock trading . moreover , in the relatively unregulated indian stock markets , investors frequently do n't know what they are getting when they subscribe to an issue . a prospectus in india does n't always tell a potential investor much . some of the large amounts are being raised by small firms . in addition , once money is raised , investors usually have no way of knowing how it is spent . some analysts are concerned that the mega-issues , in such an unregulated environment , could lead to a mega-crash . `` the rate of failures will be much more than the rate of successes in the mega-projects , '' says g.s. patel , a former chairman of the giant , government-run mutual fund , the unit trust of india . `` they 're going to have mega-problems . '' the indian stock markets have been on a five-year high , with dips and corrections , since prime minister rajiv gandhi started liberalizing industry . but the last stock market boom , in 1986 , seems small compared with the current rush to market . the $ 6 billion that some 40 companies are looking to raise in the year ending march 31 compares with only $ 2.7 billion raised on the capital market in the previous fiscal year . in fiscal 1984 , before mr. gandhi came to power , only $ 810 million was raised . this year 's biggest issue , $ 570 million of convertible debentures by engineering company larsen & toubro ltd. , is the largest in indian history . and it is n't the only giant issue : together , the top four issues will raise $ 1.3 billion . convertible debentures -- bonds that can later be converted into equity shares -- are the most popular instrument this year , though many companies are also selling nonconvertible bonds or equity shares . these mega-issues are being propelled by two factors , economic and political . in the past , the socialist policies of the government strictly limited the size of new steel mills , petrochemical plants , car factories and other industrial concerns to conserve resources and restrict the profits 0 businessmen could make . as a result , industry operated out of small , expensive , highly inefficient industrial units . when mr. gandhi came to power , he ushered in new rules for business . he said 0 industry should build plants on the same scale as those outside india and benefit from economies of scale . if the output was too great for the domestic market , he said 0 , companies should export . india 's overregulated businessmen had to be persuaded , but they have started to think big . some of the projects being funded by the new issues are the first fruits of mr. gandhi 's policy , and they require more capital than the smaller industrial units built in the past . the industrial revolution has produced an explosion in the capital market , which is a far cheaper source of funds than government-controlled banks , where interest rates for prime borrowers are around 16 % . the second factor spurring mega-issues is political . mr. gandhi has called general elections for november , and many businessmen fear that he and his congress -lrb- i -rrb- party will lose . some companies are raising money in anticipation of a government less predictable than mr. gandhi 's , and possibly more restrictive . the buoyant bombay rumor mill also says that some of the money raised in the current spate of issues will be used as campaign donations before the elections . no one admits to anything , but india 's industrialists have a history of making under-the-table campaign donations . so far , the mega-issues are a hit with investors . earlier this year , tata iron & steel co. 's offer of $ 355 million of convertible debentures was oversubscribed . essar gujarat ltd. , a marine construction company , had similar success with a slightly smaller issue . larsen & toubro started accepting applications for its giant issue earlier this month ; bankers and analysts expect it to be oversubscribed . still to come are big issues by bindal agro chem ltd. , a petrochemical and agrochemical company , and usha rectifier corp . -lrb- india -rrb- , a semiconductor maker . while many investors are selling parts of their portfolios to buy the new issues , prices on india 's 16 stock exchanges are holding up so far . `` i do n't think 0 it will lead to any chaos in the secondary market , '' says mr. patel , `` only a sagging tendency . '' says 0 m.j. pherwani , chairman of the unit trust of india : the `` markets are headed for growth unheard of and unseen before . '' but with growth come growing pains , and never has this been clearer on the indian capital market than now . in the past , the government controlled the markets indirectly , through its tight grip on industry itself . various ministries decided the products 0 businessmen could produce and how much ; and government-owned banks controlled the financing of projects and monitored whether companies came through on promised plans . the government has been content with this far-reaching , subtle form of control , exercised on a case-by-case basis with no clear rules or guidelines . but now , with large amounts being raised from investors , the government 's dawdling on regulation and disclosure requirements has a more dangerous aspect . the securities and exchange board of india was set up earlier this year , along the lines of the u.s. securities and exchange commission , but new delhi has n't pushed the legislation to make it operational . mr. dave , its head , acts cheery and patient , but he makes no bones about the need to get to work . `` mega or non-mega , we feel 0 the prospectus standards need to be considerably improved , '' he says . `` disclosures are very poor in india . '' he says 0 the big questions -- `` do you really need this much money to put up these investments ? have you told investors what is happening in your sector ? what about your track record ? -- `` are n't asked of companies coming to market . instead , he says 0 , most investors have to rely on the rumor-happy indian press . an example is the biggest offering of them all , larsen & toubro 's $ 570 million bond issue . the engineering company was acquired in a takeover earlier this year by the giant reliance textile group . although larsen & toubro had n't raised money from the public in 38 years , its new owners frequently raise funds on the local market . -lrb- reliance floated a $ 357 million petrochemical company in 1988 that was , at the time , the largest public issue in indian history . -rrb- the media has raised questions about larsen & toubro 's issue , pointing out that it exceeds the company 's annual sales and its market capitalization . even stranger is the case of usha rectifier , a semiconductor company with 1988 sales of $ 28 million that 's raising $ 270 million to build an iron plant . once the money is raised , it is n't always certain how it is used . larsen & toubro , for example , says it 's raising $ 570 million 0 to use as supplier credit on large engineering jobs . unlike other companies , it has n't pin-pointed specific projects for the funds . and even when specific projects are described in prospectuses , the money often is used elsewhere , according to analysts . `` someone must monitor where the funds are deployed , '' says mr. dave . mr. patel agrees : `` there is no proper monitoring and screening of the use of these funds . they 're trying to plug the various loopholes , but they 're totally unprepared for this . '' because of the large amounts of money being raised , the loose disclosure requirements and the casual monitoring of how the money is used , some analysts fear that there could be a few mega-crashes , which could hurt market confidence far more than the small bankruptcies that followed the boom of 1986 . the government insists that such a possibility is low . it says that despite loose regulation of the market itself , its longstanding regulation of industry will prevent such crashes . t.t. ram mohan contributed to this article .