bullish bond market sentiment is on the rise again . as the government prepares to release the next batch of economic reports , the consensus among economists and money managers is that the news will be negative . and that , they say , will be good for bonds . `` recent data have indicated somewhat weaker economic activity , '' said elliott platt , director of economic research at donaldson , lufkin & jenrette securities . mr. platt is advising clients that `` the near-term direction of bond prices is likely to remain upward . '' analysts insist that even without help from a shaky stock market , which provided a temporary boost for bonds during the oct. 13 stock market plunge , bond prices will start to climb on the prospects that the federal reserve will allow interest rates to move lower in the coming weeks . that would be comforting to fixed-income investors , many of whom were badly burned in the third quarter by incorrectly assuming that the fed would ease . investors rushed to buy bonds during the summer as prices soared on speculation that interest rates would continue to fall . but when it became clear that rates had stabilized and that the fed 's credit-easing policy was on hold , bond yields jumped and prices tumbled . long-term bonds have performed erratically this year . for example , a group of long-term treasury bonds tracked by merrill lynch & co. produced a total return of 1 % in the first quarter , 12.45 % in the second quarter and -0.06 % in the third quarter . total return is price changes plus interest income . now some investment analysts insist that the economic climate has turned cold and gloomy , and they are urging clients to buy bonds before the rally begins . among other things , economists note that consumer spending is slowing , corporate profit margins are being squeezed , business confidence is slipping and construction and manufacturing industries are depressed . at the same time , last week 's consumer price index showed that inflation is moderating . add it all up and it means `` that the fed has a little leeway 0 to ease its credit policy stance without the risk of rekindling inflation , '' said 0 norman robertson , chief economist at mellon bank corp. , pittsburgh . `` i think 0 we will see a federal funds rate of close to 8 1\/2 % in the next two weeks and 8 % by year end . '' the federal funds rate , which banks charge each other on overnight loans , is considered an early signal of changes in the fed 's credit policy . economists generally agree that the rate was lowered by the fed from around 9 % , where it had been since july , to about 8 3\/4 % in early october on the heels of a weak employment report . although the rate briefly drifted even lower following the stock market sell-off that occurred oct. 13 , it ended friday at about 8 11\/16 % . james kochan , chief fixed-income strategist at merrill lynch , is touting shorter-term securities , which he says 0 should benefit more quickly than longer-term bonds as interest rates fall . `` given our forecast for lower rates , purchases made now should prove quite rewarding before year end , '' he said . mr. kochan also likes long-term , investment-grade corporate bonds and long-term treasurys . he says 0 these bonds should appreciate in value as some investors , reacting to the recent turmoil in the stock and high-yield junk bond markets , seek safer securities . `` if the -lcb- tennessee valley authority -rcb- sale is any guide , there appears to be good demand for top-quality , long-term paper from both domestic and overseas accounts , '' he said . tva , in its first public debt offering in 15 years , sold $ 4 billion of long-term and intermediate-term securities last week . strong investor demand prompted the utility to boost the size of the issue from $ 3 billion . tva , which operates one of the nation 's largest electric power systems , is a corporation owned by the federal government . but persuading investors to buy bonds may be especially tough this week , when the u.s. government will auction more than $ 30 billion of new securities . today , the treasury department will sell $ 15.6 billion of three-month and six-month bills at the regular weekly auction . tomorrow , the treasury will sell $ 10 billion of two-year notes . resolution funding corp. , known as refcorp , a division of a new government agency created to bail out the nation 's troubled savings and loan associations , will hold its first bond auction wednesday , when it will sell $ 4.5 billion of 30-year bonds . all of this comes ahead of the government 's big quarterly refunding of the federal debt , which takes place sometime in november . so far , investors have n't shown much appetite for refcorp 's initial bond offering . roger early , a portfolio manager at federated investors corp. , said that yields on the so-called bailout bonds are n't high enough to attract his attention . `` why should i bother with something that 's an unknown for a very small pickup in yield ? '' he said . `` i 'm not going to jump on them the first day 0 they come out . '' he seems to be typical of many professional money managers . when the size of the refcorp offering was announced last week and when-issued trading activity began , the bailout bonds were yielding about 1\/20 percentage point more than the treasury 's benchmark 30-year bond . on friday , the yield was quoted at about 1\/4 percentage point higher than the benchmark bond , an indication of weak demand . some economists believe that yields on all treasury securities may rise this week as the market struggles to absorb the new supply . but once the new securities are digested , they expect investors to focus on the weak economic data . `` the supply is not a constraint to the market , '' said samuel kahan , chief financial economist at kleinwort benson government securities inc . `` if one thinks that rates are going down , you do n't care how much supply is coming . '' friday 's market activity most bond prices fell on concerns about this week 's new supply and disappointment that stock prices did n't stage a sharp decline . junk bond prices moved higher , however . in early trading , treasury bonds were higher on expectations that a surge in buying among japanese investors would continue . also providing support to treasurys was hope that the stock market might see declines because of the expiration of some stock-index futures and options on indexes and individual stocks . those hopes were dashed when the stock market put in a relatively quiet performance . treasury bonds ended with losses of as much as 1\/4 point , or about $ 2.50 for each $ 1,000 face amount . the benchmark 30-year bond , which traded as high as 102 1\/4 during the day , ended at 101 17\/32 . the yield on the benchmark bond rose slightly to 7.98 % from 7.96 % . in the corporate bond market , traders said 0 the new-issue market for junk bonds is likely to pick up following chicago & north western acquisition corp. 's $ 475 million junk bond offering friday . today , for example , underwriters at morgan stanley & co. said 0 they expect to price a $ 150 million , 12-year senior subordinated debenture offering by imo industries inc . traders expect the issue to be priced to yield 12 % . shearson lehman hutton inc. said that a $ 150 million senior subordinated discount debenture issue by r.p. scherer drugs is expected by the end of the month . however , despite the big new-issue calendar , many junk bond investors and analysts are skeptical 0 the deals will get done . `` there are about a dozen more deals coming , '' said michael mcnamara , director of fixed-income research at kemper financial services inc . `` if they had this much trouble with chicago & north western , they are going to have an awful time with the rest . '' last week , underwriters were forced to postpone three junk bond deals because of recent weakness in the market . and pressure by big investors forced donaldson lufkin & jenrette securities corp. to sweeten chicago & north western 's $ 475 million junk bond offering . after hours of negotiating that stretched late into thursday night , underwriters priced the 12-year issue of resettable senior subordinated debentures at par to yield 14.75 % , higher than the 14.5 % that had been expected . the coupon on the issue will be reset in one year at a rate that will give the issue a market value of 101 . however , the maximum coupon rate on the issue when it is reset is 15.50 % . debenture holders also will receive the equivalent of 10 % of the common stock in chicago & north western 's parent company . `` the coupon was raised to induce some of the big players on the fence to come in , '' said a spokesman for donaldson . `` we put a price on the deal that the market required to get it done . '' the spokesman said 0 the issue was sold out and met with strong interest abroad , particularly from japanese investors . in the secondary , or resale , market , junk bonds closed 1\/2 point higher , while investment-grade corporate bonds fell 1\/8 to 1\/4 point .