farmers reap abundant crops . but how much will shoppers benefit ? the harvest arrives in plenty after last year 's drought-ravaged effort : the government estimates corn output at 7.45 billion bushels , up 51 % from last fall . soybean production swells 24 % . as a result , prices paid to farmers for the commodities , which are used in products as diverse as bubble gum and chicken feed , plummet 20 % to 33 % . but do n't expect too much in the way of price breaks soon at the supermarket . economists expect consumer food prices to jump 5.5 % this year to the highest level since 1980 and up from last year 's 4.1 % rise . next year may see a drop of one percentage point . beef prices , hovering near records since the drought , could drop in earnest this winter if ranchers expand herds . lower feed prices may help animals eat more cheaply , but humans have to factor in an expensive middleman : the processor . food companies probably wo n't cut their prices much , blaming other costs . `` labor takes the biggest single chunk out of the ` food dollar , ' '' says frank pankyo of the food institute . stokely says 0 stores revive specials like three cans of peas for 99 cents . two cans cost 89 cents during the drought . if in vitro fertilization works , it usually does so after only a few tries . costly infertility problems and procedures proliferate as aging baby boomers and others decide to have children -- now . it 's estimated that one in six couples experiences infertility , and in 1987 , americans spent about $ 1 billion to fight the problem . only about five states now offer some form of insurance coverage , but more are expected . a letter in the new england journal of medicine notes that while technology offers `` almost endless hope ... when to stop has become a difficult question ... . '' the authors , from boston 's beth israel hospital , say that 84 % of the 50 births 0 they followed occurred after only two in vitro cycles . it adds that births were `` extremely unlikely '' after the fourth cycle and concludes 0 couples who do n't achieve a pregnancy after four to six procedures should be advised that success is unlikely . some couples continue to try . `` such determination may translate into extreme physical , emotional and financial costs , '' the letter warns . market moves , these managers do n't . only three of the 25 corporate pension fund managers attending a lowry consulting group client conference say 0 they plan to change the asset allocation mix in their portfolios because of the market drop . world oddities come alive in a multimedia version of the guinness book of records . the $ 99 cd-rom disk -lrb- it can only be played on an apple macintosh computer at the moment -rrb- combines animation , music and sound . among the guinness disk 's wonders : the world 's loudest recorded belch . arty fax from david hockney begins a tongue-in-cheek exhibit today at new york 's andre emmerich gallery . one of the artist 's earliest fax works was `` little stanley sleeping , '' a portrait of his dog . pacs give and receive in a debatable duet with employees ' favored charities . the federal election commission clears corporate plans to donate to an employee 's chosen charity in exchange for the worker 's gift to the company political action committee . latest approvals : bell atlantic 's new jersey bell and general dynamics . companies get more political clout plus a possible tax-deductible charitable donation -- so far no word from the irs on deductibility . detroit edison , the plan pioneer , generated $ 54,000 in matching funds this year , up from $ 39,000 in 1988 . but the utility may not continue next year . `` we 're on a tight budget , '' says detroit edison 's carol roskind . two election commission members opposed the matching plans . scott e. thomas says 0 the plans give employees `` a bonus in the form of charitable donations made from an employer 's treasury '' in exchange for the political donation . `` the u.s. government could be , in effect , subsidizing political contributions to corporate pacs , '' he says . new jersey bell awaits state clearance . despite federal approval , general dynamics says 0 it decided 0 it wo n't go ahead with the matching program . christmas shoppers find a helping hand from some catalog companies . blunt ellis & loewi estimates 0 direct mail catalog sales rose to $ 12 billion last year . and while it 's too soon 0 to tell how sales will fare in the important 1989 christmas season , some companies take steps 0 to ease the usual 11th-hour crush . spiegel promises a `` guaranteed christmas , '' with a pledge to deliver goods before christmas if ordered by dec. 20 . and , for an extra $ 6 , land 's end will deliver orders within two days ; customers can designate the day . spiegel , which also owns eddie bauer and honeybee , says that since 1987 , sales have doubled during the week before christmas . an l.l. bean spokeswoman notes : `` people are just used to living in a last-minute society . '' blunt ellis , a milwaukee brokerage firm , says 0 part of the reason 0 catalog sales grow in popularity is because consumers have more money but less time 0 to spend it . l.l. bean hires about 2,700 workers for the season rush , about 300 more than last year ; land 's end hires 2,000 . briefs : guarana antarctica , a brazilian soft drink , is brought to the u.s. by amcap , chevy chase , md . new product news says 0 the beverage `` looks like ginger ale , tastes a little like cherries and smells like bubble gum . '' ... `` amenities '' planned for chicago 's new parkshore tower apartments include an on-site investment counselor .