if you 'd really rather have a buick , do n't leave home without the american express card . or so the slogan might go . american express co. and general motors corp. 's beleaguered buick division are joining forces in a promotion aimed at boosting buick 's sales while encouraging broader use of the american express card . the companies are giving four-day vacations for two to buick buyers who charge all or part of their down payments on the american express green card . they have begun sending letters explaining the program , which began oct. 18 and will end dec. 18 , to about five million card holders . neither company would disclose the program 's cost . buick approached american express about a joint promotion because its card holders generally have a `` good credit history '' and are `` good at making payments , '' says a spokeswoman for the division . american express also represents the upscale image 0 `` we 're trying to project , '' she adds . buick has been seeking for the past few years to restore its reputation as `` the doctor 's car '' -- a product for upscale professionals . sales were roughly flat in the 1989 model year compared with a year earlier , though industry sales fell . but since the 1990 model year began oct. 1 , buick sales have plunged 33 % . for american express , the promotion is part of an effort to broaden the use of its card for retail sales , where the company expects to get much of the future growth in its card business . traditionally , the card has been used mainly for travel and entertainment expenses . phillip riese , an american express executive vice president , says 0 the promotion with buick is his company 's first with an auto maker , but `` hopefully -lcb- will be -rcb- the first of many '' in the company 's effort to promote its green card as `` the total car-care card . '' to that end , american express has been signing up gasoline companies , car repair shops , tire companies and car dealers to accept the card . many auto dealers now let car buyers charge part or all of their purchase on the american express card , but few card holders realize this , mr. riese says 0 . until now , however , buyers who wanted to finance part of a car purchase through general motors acceptance corp. could n't put their down payment on a charge card because of possible conflicts with truth-in-lending and state disclosure laws over finance rates , says a spokesman for the gm finance arm . but gmac approved the buick program , he says 0 , because the american express green card requires payment in full upon billing , and so does n't carry any finance rates . mr. riese says 0 american express considers gm and buick `` very sophisticated direct-mail marketers , '' so `` by joining forces with them we have managed to maximize our direct-mail capability . '' in addition , buick is a relatively respected nameplate among american express card holders , says 0 an american express spokeswoman . when the company asked members in a mailing which cars they would like to get information about for possible future purchases , buick came in fourth among u.s. cars and in the top 10 of all cars , the spokeswoman says 0 . american express has more than 24 million card holders in the u.s. , and over half have the green card . gmac screened the card-member list for holders more than 30 years old with household incomes over $ 45,000 who had n't `` missed any payments , '' the buick spokeswoman says 0 . some 3.8 million of the five million who will get letters were preapproved for credit with gmac . these 3.8 million people also are eligible to get one percentage point off gmac 's advertised finance rates , which start at 6.9 % for two-year loan contracts . a spokesman for visa international 's u.s. subsidiary says 0 his company is using promotions to increase use of its cards , but does n't have plans for a tie-in similar to the american express-buick link . three divisions at american express are working with buick on the promotion : the establishment services division , which is responsible for all merchants and companies that accept the card ; the travel division ; and the merchandise sales division . the vacation packages include hotel accommodations and , in some cases , tours or tickets to local attractions , but not meals . destinations are chicago ; honolulu ; las vegas , nev. ; los angeles ; miami beach , fla. ; new orleans ; new york ; orlando , fla. ; san francisco ; and washington , d.c. a buyer who chooses to fly to his destination must pay for his own ticket but gets a companion 's ticket free if they fly on united airlines . in lieu of the vacation , buyers can choose among several prizes , including a grandfather clock or a stereo videocassette recorder . card holders who receive the letter also are eligible for a sweepstakes with buick cars or a hawaii vacation as prizes . if they test-drive a buick , they get an american express calculator . this is n't buick 's first travel-related promotion . a few years ago , the company offered two round-trip tickets on trans world airlines to buyers of its riviera luxury car . the promotion helped riviera sales exceed the division 's forecast by more than 10 % , buick said 0 at the time .