as an actor , charles lane is n't the inheritor of charlie chaplin 's spirit . steve martin has already laid his claim to that . but it is mr. lane , as movie director , producer and writer , who has been obsessed with refitting chaplin 's little tramp in a contemporary way . in 1976 , as a film student at the purchase campus of the state university of new york , mr. lane shot `` a place in time , '' a 36-minute black-and-white film about a sketch artist , a man of the streets . now , 13 years later , mr. lane has revived his artist in a full-length movie called `` sidewalk stories , '' a poignant piece of work about a modern-day tramp . of course , if the film contained dialogue , mr. lane 's artist would be called a homeless person . so would the little tramp , for that matter . i say `` contained dialogue '' because `` sidewalk stories '' is n't really silent at all . composer marc marder , a college friend of mr. lane 's who earns his living playing the double bass in classical music ensembles , has prepared an exciting , eclectic score that tells you what the characters are thinking and feeling far more precisely than intertitles , or even words , would . much of mr. lane 's film takes a highly romanticized view of life on the streets -lrb- though probably no more romanticized than mr. chaplin 's notion of the tramp as the good-hearted free spirit -rrb- . filmed in lovely black and white by bill dill , the new york streets of `` sidewalk stories '' seem benign . on wall street men and women walk with great purpose , noticing one another only when they jostle for cabs . the artist hangs out in greenwich village , on a strip of sixth avenue populated by jugglers , magicians and other good-natured hustlers . -lrb- this clearly is not real life : no crack dealers , no dead-eyed men selling four-year-old copies of cosmopolitan , no one curled up in a cardboard box . -rrb- the artist has his routine . he spends his days sketching passers-by , or trying to . at night he returns to the condemned building 0 he calls home . his life , including his skirmishes with a competing sketch artist , seems carefree . he is his own man . then , just as the tramp is given a blind girl 0 to cure in `` city lights , '' the artist is put in charge of returning a two-year-old waif -lrb- nicole alysia -rrb- , whose father has been murdered by thugs , to her mother . this cute child turns out to be a blessing and a curse . she gives the artist a sense of purpose , but also alerts him to the serious inadequacy of his vagrant life . the beds at the bowery mission seem far drearier when he has to tuck a little girl into one of them at night . to further load the stakes , mr. lane dreamed up a highly improbable romance for the artist , with a young woman who owns her own children 's shop and who lives in an expensive high-rise apartment building . this story line might resonate more strongly if mr. lane had as strong a presence in front of the camera as he does behind it . mr. lane 's final purpose is n't to glamorize the artist 's vagabond existence . he has a point 0 he wants to make , and he makes it , with a great deal of force . the movie ends with sound , the sound of street people talking , and there is n't anything whimsical or enviable in those rough , beaten voices . the french film maker claude chabrol has managed another kind of weird achievement with his `` story of women . '' he has made a harsh , brilliant picture -- one that 's captivating -- about a character who , viewed from the most sympathetic angle , would seem disagreeable . yet this woman , marie-louise giraud , carries historical significance , both as one of the last women 0 to be executed in france and as a symbol of the vichy government 's hypocrisy . while vichy collaborated with the germans during world war ii in the deaths of thousands of resistance fighters and jews , its officials needed a diversionary symbolic traitor . marie-louise , a small-time abortionist , was their woman . she became an abortionist accidentally , and continued because it enabled her to buy jam , cocoa and other war-rationed goodies . she was untrained and , in one botched job killed a client . her remorse was shallow and brief . although she was kind and playful to her children , she was dreadful to her war-damaged husband ; she openly brought her lover into their home . as presented by mr. chabrol , and played with thin-lipped intensity by isabelle huppert , marie-louise -lrb- called marie latour in the film -rrb- was not a nice person . but she did n't deserve to have her head chopped off . there is very little 0 to recommend `` old gringo , '' a confused rendering of the carlos fuentes novel of the mexican revolution . most of the picture is taken up with endless scenes of many people either fighting or eating and drinking to celebrate victory . i mention the picture only because many bad movies have a bright spot , and this one has gregory peck , in a marvelously loose and energetic portrayal of an old man who wants to die the way 0 he wants to die . video tip : before seeing `` sidewalk stories , '' take a look at `` city lights , '' chaplin 's tramp at his finest .