microsoft corp. 's earnings growth continued to outstrip that of most of its competitors and customers in the personal-computer industry , as it reported a 36 % jump in fiscal first-quarter earnings on a 33 % revenue gain . the redmond , wash. company , a bellwether provider of operating systems and software for personal-computer makers and users , reported net income for the quarter ended sept. 30 of $ 49.6 million , or 87 cents a share , up from $ 36.6 million , or 65 cents a share , in the year-ago period . revenue rose to $ 235.2 million , from $ 176.4 million . microsoft previously indicated 0 it would have a strong quarter by forecasting its revenue gain on oct. 4 , causing a $ 6.50 a share jump in its stock . but its stock jumped again yesterday as it disclosed surprisingly strong margins on those sales . microsoft 's stock rose $ 2.875 a share in national over-the-counter trading to $ 78.625 . the stock had hit a high of $ 81 a share early last week but collapsed to $ 73.50 in the friday stock plunge . the company had been experiencing softening margins because of increased sales of software applications , which have lower margins than do operating systems . but the company said 0 that trend was offset in the first quarter by better economies of scale and efficiencies in manufacturing . as a result , microsoft 's cost of goods , as a percentage of sales , fell 17 % from the year-ago quarter and 13 % from the previous period . the trend drove up the aftertax margin -- net income as a percentage of revenues -- to 21.1 % in the quarter , compared with 20.7 % a year earlier . microsoft officials said 0 the strong results also reflected continuing high demand for its software applications and operating systems . while it has predicted that overall growth in unit sales of personal computers is slowing to about a 10 % yearly rate , its own products are selling at a much faster rate because many are geared to the high-performance end of the market . that segment continues to post strong quarter-to-quarter gains , while the low-end , or commodity segment , of the industry is experiencing sluggish growth or even sales declines . compared with its previous quarter , the final period of its 1989 fiscal year , net rose 9 % , and sales rose 7 % .