the house joined the senate in making federal reparations for japanese-americans held in world war ii internment camps a legal entitlement requiring the treasury department to meet expedited payments of an estimated $ 1.25 billion during the next several years . the 249-166 roll call came as the chamber approved a compromise bill allocating $ 17.2 billion to the departments of state , justice , and commerce in fiscal 1990 and imposing increased fees on business interests making filings with the government . an estimated $ 40 million would come annually from a new $ 20,000 charge on pre-merger notifications to the justice department , and securities and exchange commission filing fees would rise by 25 % to fund a $ 26 million increase in the agency 's budget . yesterday 's vote on japanese-american reparations ensures final enactment of the entitlement provision , which abandons earlier efforts to find offsetting cuts but is seen as a more realistic path to expediting compensation first authorized in 1988 . `` the only way 0 to reduce the costs is to say 0 we do n't want to pay the bill , '' said rep. neal smith -lrb- d. , iowa -rrb- , who taunted president bush 's party to back up his campaign promise of supporting the claims of $ 20,000 per individual . `` read my lips , '' said mr. smith . `` if you 're for paying the claims ... i do n't know how anyone can oppose this . '' no payments would be made this year , but beginning in fiscal 1991 , the bill commits the government to annual payments of as much as $ 500 million until the total liability of $ 1.25 billion is met . the issue has assumed some of the character of past civil-rights debates and reopens old regional divisions in the democratic majority . as much as republicans led the opposition , among the 53 democrats voting against treating the payments as an entitlement , 42 came from the 13 states in the old dixiecrat south and its borders . the odd mix of departments in the underlying bill makes it one of the more eclectic of the annual appropriations measures , and it is a lightning rod for a running battle over the fate of the legal services corp . the measure provides $ 321 million 0 to maintain services but would sharply curb the power of the current board until successors are agreed to by the bush administration . the conservative bent of the incumbent appointees , named by former president reagan , has divided republicans . and on back-to-back roll calls , 206-199 and 223-178 , the appropriations committee leadership turned back efforts to weaken or strip the proposed restrictions first added by sen. warren rudman -lrb- r. , n.h. -rrb- the estimated $ 40 million from the new pre-merger notification fee would be divided between the justice department 's antitrust division and the federal trade commission , which both face serious cuts if the income is n't realized . the federal bureau of investigation is slated to receive $ 30 million by charging for fingerprint services in civil cases , and the judiciary will rely on another $ 32 million from bankruptcy charges , including a 33 % increase in the current filing fee . the $ 17.2 billion total for the bill does n't include an estimated $ 1.2 billion in supplemental anti-drug funds approved by the house-senate conference yesterday , and the rush of money is already provoking jealousy among states competing for assistance . the house agreed to defer for a year a scheduled 50 % increase in the required state matching funds for law-enforcement grants but , by a 287-123 margin , the chamber stripped a senate initiative to raise the minimum grant for smaller states , such as new hampshire and delaware , to $ 1.6 million from $ 500,000 . few are more powerful in the competition for funds than the appropriations committees themselves -- including the three authors of the gramm-rudman-hollings deficit-reduction law . when a house-senate conference on yesterday 's bill rescinded $ 11.8 million in unexpended funds for a fort worth , texas , economic development project backed by former speaker james wright , sen. phil gramm -lrb- r. , texas -rrb- insisted last week that the money be preserved . the measure includes $ 2 million secured by mr. rudman for a marine-research project at the university of new hampshire , and sen. ernest hollings -lrb- d. , s.c . -rrb- used his power to add $ 10 million for an advanced technology initiative in the commerce department . this was in addition to a more parochial $ 4.5 million authorization for a health center in south carolina upheld by a 273-121 vote in the house last night .