at a time when foreign banks are pouring vast resources and personnel into west germany 's financial center , the opening of a three-man office on a frankfurt side street should n't attract much attention . unless , of course , it happens to be run by the rothschilds . after an 88-year absence from the birthplace of the family banking empire , the return of the rothschild group to frankfurt was greeted by the glare of television lights , curious reporters and a mayoral reception in town hall . like other foreign banks establishing a presence here , the family describes its move as a calculated decision to set up a financial services outlet in europe 's largest economy ahead of the integration of european community markets after 1992 . yet the rothschilds do n't deny an emotional element to the decision . in 1796 , mayer amschel rothschild founded bankhaus m.a. rothschild & sons and later sent his four sons to london , paris , vienna and naples to begin the bank 's expansion during the early 19th century . the original bank in frankfurt closed in 1901 after the death of wilhelm carl von rothschild , and the family 's banking activities focused on london and paris . baron elie de rothschild , the family 's elder spokesman , explains that by the end of the 19th century , berlin had replaced frankfurt as germany 's financial center . yet the chief reason for the closure , he says 0 , was rooted in a family tradition that would n't allow a bank to bear the rothschild name without a rothschild in its management . `` at the time we had only daughters , '' explains the 72-year-old patriarch , `` so we had to close the bank . '' much of the family 's mystique remained . although its palatial residence was destroyed by bombs during world war ii , the rothschilds ' place in frankfurt 's history is still recalled by the city park and a street bearing the rothschild name . the family 's long absence is understandable . the family was in allied countries during both world war i and the long period of economic strife of the 1920s . during the third reich , the rothschilds were a target of nazi propaganda against jewish financiers . the persecution pursued the rothschilds across europe as the nazis grabbed countries , confiscating the family 's property in the process . american journalist william l. shirer , in his book `` the rise and fall of the third reich , '' wrote of how in vienna he had witnessed `` squads of -lcb- nazi -rcb- ss men carting off silver , tapestries , paintings and other loot from the rothschild palace . '' in the immediate postwar years , the rothschilds concentrated on rebuilding their other european operations , delaying their return to frankfurt . `` for a member of the rothschild family , the return to frankfurt is a very meaningful event , although it might not mean as much to german banking as it means to us , '' says baron david de rothschild , elie 's younger cousin and a partner in rothschild & cie . banque in paris . indeed , the competition is n't greatly concerned . `` it would be surprising if they did n't come to frankfurt in time for 1992 , and they bring an interesting tradition . but the market really is n't going to be stood on its head , '' said a banker at one of frankfurt 's big three banks . the return of the rothschilds is modest . the new representative office , with one manager and two assistants -- none a member of the rothschild family -- will carry out no banking operations of its own . instead , it is to seek out corporate financing business and sell investment products on behalf of the family 's mainstay banking units : n m rothschild & sons ltd. in london , rothschild & cie. in paris and rothschild bank ag in zurich . the constraints do n't bother the office 's 54-year-old manager , erich stromeyer . he left his job as general manager of shearson lehman hutton holdings inc. 's frankfurt office because , he says 0 , `` when the rothschilds called , i could n't resist . '' each rothschild bank is linked by family ties and cross-ownership . in march , n m rothschild in london and rothschild bank in zurich showed assets of # 4.1 billion -lrb- $ 6.51 billion -rrb- and 1.26 billion swiss francs -lrb- $ 774 million -rrb- , respectively . the paris bank does n't publish that figure . in europe , the rothschilds banks are focusing on mergers and acquisitions as european industry restructures ahead of 1992 . yet the group 's limited resources makes it a niche player . `` obviously , there are quantitative limitations on the assistance 0 we can provide , '' concedes baron david de rothschild , `` but we feel 0 we have some cards 0 to play . '' among them , he says 0 , is the family 's traditional ties to old wealth and decision-makers in banking and industry throughout europe and beyond . the rothschilds hope to use a long history in private banking and an aura of exclusivity to attract private and institutional investors . as at the zurich bank , the minimum investment for individuals will be high : about a million german marks -lrb- $ 538,000 -rrb- , three times what many other west german investment banks require . `` but we do make exceptions , '' says a smiling baron elie de rothschild , `` especially if they are very young and have very rich parents .