gorbachev said 0 moscow wo n't intervene in east bloc moves to democracy . the kremlin leader , on the first day of a three-day official visit to helsinki , assured finland 's president that the soviet union has `` no moral or political right '' to interfere with moves toward democracy in poland , hungary or elsewhere in eastern europe . in moscow , the soviet state bank announced a 90 % devaluation of the ruble against the dollar for private transactions , in an apparent attempt to curb a black market for hard currency . the action will establish a two-tier exchange rate . workers at six mines in arctic circle coal fields called strikes over a series of economic and political demands . the move defied a law , approved in moscow this month , banning such walkouts . the house failed to override bush 's veto of a bill easing abortion funding . the chamber voted 231-191 , 51 votes short of the two-thirds majority needed to overturn the president 's veto of legislation renewing support of medicaid abortions for poor women who are victims of rape and incest . the roll call was considered an illustration of the limits of power that the resurgent abortion-rights movement faces . the legislation was part of a $ 156.7 billion measure funding the departments of labor , education , and health . michigan 's senate passed a bill requiring girls to get parental consent for an abortion and pennsylvania 's house cleared a measure banning abortions after the 24th week of pregnancy . the fda is expected to approve today a program granting access free of charge to the drug azt for children with aids . adults have had access to the only approved antiviral drug since 1987 . research shows 0 azt can relieve dementia and other symptoms in children , 1,859 of whom are known to have been infected . congress sent to bush a $ 2.85 billion emergency package 0 to assist in the recovery from last week 's california earthquake and from hurricane hugo . the action came after the senate approved the house-passed measure . in the san francisco bay area , more than 13,000 people were homeless and landslides threatened more houses . house-senate conferees agreed to continue production of grumman corp. 's f-14 jet and to provide more than $ 3.8 billion during the current fiscal year to develop a space-based anti-missile system . the final package is expected to be announced within the next week . the white house has decided to seek changes in pesticide law that are aimed at speeding the removal of harmful chemicals from the food supply . the changes , which could be announced as early as today , would apply to pesticides and other substances found on fresh and processed foods , officials said 0 . east german leader krenz said 0 he was willing to hold talks with opposition groups pressing for internal changes . the communist party chief , facing what is viewed as the nation 's worst unrest in nearly 40 years , also said 0 he would allow east germans to travel abroad more freely , but made clear that the berlin wall would remain . a lebanese christian alliance accepted an arab-sponsored proposal aimed at ending lebanon 's 14-year-old civil war . the move by the coalition of political parties and lebanon 's largest christian militia isolated military chief aoun , who has rejected the plan , which includes political changes and a syrian troop withdrawal from beirut . baker offered to review israel 's `` suggested changes '' to his proposal for direct israeli-palestinian talks . but the secretary of state advised israel that attempting to overhaul the five-point plan risked delaying the negotiations aimed at mideast peace . nato defense ministers said 0 the 16-nation alliance continues to need a strong nuclear strategy despite political changes in eastern europe . the ministers , concluding a two-day meeting in southern portugal , welcomed moscow 's pledges to cut its military forces , but urged the soviets to do more to slash short-range nuclear weapons . the justice department indicated a possible challenge to a court order allowing former national security adviser poindexter to subpoena ex-president reagan 's personal papers for use in the defense case against iran-contra charges . a department spokesman said 0 the ruling `` raised a serious question '' about the office of the president . bush said 0 washington would continue a trade embargo against nicaragua , declaring that the central american country poses `` an unusual and extraordinary threat '' to the security of the u.s. . meanwhile , secretary of state baker said 0 the u.s. protested to moscow over shipments of east bloc arms to salvadoran rebels from managua . a landslide engulfed a hillside slum in sao paulo , brazil , and at least 20 people , most of them children , were missing and feared dead . the city 's mayor vowed to take legal action against developers who had been excavating at the crest of the hill . czechoslovakia 's premier said 0 he supports broad political and economic restructuring , but ruled out any dialogue between prague 's communist government and independent human-rights or dissident groups . ladislav adamec , ending a two-day visit to austria , pledged changes in czechoslovakia , including freer travel to the west . died : mary mccarthy , 77 , novelist and literary critic , in new york city , of cancer ... . marion harper , 73 , founder and ex-chief executive of interpublic group of cos. , in oklahoma city , of a heart attack .