a house-senate conference approved a nearly $ 17 billion state , justice and commerce department bill that makes federal reparations for japanese-americans held in world war ii internment camps a legal entitlement after next oct. 1 . the measure provides no money for the promised payments until then , but beginning in fiscal 1991 , the government would be committed to meeting annual payments of as much as $ 500 million until the total liability of approximately $ 1.25 billion is paid . the action abandons earlier efforts to find offsetting cuts 0 to fund the payments , but is widely seen as a more realistic means of expediting reparations first authorized in 1988 . the action came as congress sent to president bush a fiscal 1990 bill providing an estimated $ 156.7 billion for the departments of labor , education , health and human services . final approval was on a 67-31 roll call in the senate , which sets the stage for a veto confrontation with mr. bush over the issue of publicly financed abortions for poor women . reversing an eight-year federal policy , the measure supports medicaid abortions in cases of rape and incest , but mr. bush has so far refused to support any specific exemption beyond instances in which the mother 's life is in danger . mr. bush 's veto power puts him a commanding position in the narrowly divided house , but a vote to override his position could well pick up new support because of the wealth of health and education programs financed in the underlying bill . the measure before the conference yesterday funds the departments of state , justice and commerce through fiscal 1990 . an estimated $ 1.32 billion is provided for next year 's census , and negotiators stripped a senate-passed rider seeking to block the counting of illegal aliens . elsewhere in the commerce department , nearly $ 191.2 million is preserved for assistance programs under the economic development administration . and in a footnote to the fall of house speaker james wright this year , the conference voted to rescind $ 11.8 million in unspent eda funds for a fort worth , texas , stockyards project that figured in ethics charges against the former democratic leader . fiscal pressures also forced the adoption of new fees charged by federal agencies , and an 18 % increase in the securities and exchange commission 's budget would be financed entirely by an added $ 26 million in filing fees . in an unprecedented step , the measure anticipates another $ 30 million in receipts by having the federal bureau of investigation charge for fingerprint services in civil cases -- a change that is almost certain to increase pentagon costs in processing personnel and security clearances . the bill does n't include an estimated $ 1.9 billion in supplemental anti-drug funds for justice department and law-enforcement accounts that are still in conference with the house . but yesterday 's agreement would make it easier for state governments to handle the promised aid by deferring for one year a scheduled 50 % increase in the required state matching funds for law-enforcement grants . similarly , the measure adjusts the current funding formula to promise smaller states such as new hampshire and delaware a minimum allocation of $ 1.6 million each in drug grants , or three times the current minimum . the odd mix of departments in the bill makes it one of the more eclectic of the annual appropriations measures , and the assorted provisions attached by lawmakers run from $ 1.5 million for a fish farm in arkansas to a music festival in moscow under the united states information agency . lawmakers scrapped all of a $ 7.4 million state department request for the 1992 expo in seville , spain , but agreed elsewhere to $ 15,000 for an oil portrait of former chief justice warren burger . senate commerce committee chairman ernest hollings -lrb- d. , s.c. -rrb- , who also chairs the senate appropriations subcommittee for the department , attached $ 10 million for an advanced technology initiative , including work on high-definition television . his republican counterpart , sen. warren rudman -lrb- r. , n.h. -rrb- , has used his position to wage a legislative war with the conservative board of the legal services corp . an estimated $ 321 million is provided to maintain the program , but mr. rudman also succeeded in attaching language seeking to curb the authority of the current board until new members are confirmed . the effective date of any new regulations by the current board would be delayed until oct. 1 next year , and the bill seeks to reverse efforts by the corporation to cut off funds to service organizations such as the food research and action center . the bill also provides $ 620.5 million 0 to meet u.s. contributions to international organizations and $ 80 million for peace-keeping activities . both accounts reflect significant increases from fiscal 1989 , although the amount for peace-keeping shows a 27 % cut from the administration 's request .