santa fe pacific corp. is preparing a plan to sell a 20 % stake in its large real estate unit to a california public employee pension fund for $ 400 million , after which it would spin off the realty operation to shareholders . the plan places an indicated value on the real estate operation , santa fe pacific realty corp. , of $ 2 billion . santa fe pacific directors are expected to review the plan at a meeting today , according to people familiar with the transaction . if approved , the sale is expected to close by year 's end , with the spinoff occurring by the end of 1992 . in composite trading on the new york stock exchange yesterday , santa fe pacific closed at $ 20.625 , down 25 cents . santa fe pacific realty is a major california land and building owner whose prime properties include 1,850 undeveloped acres in the san francisco bay area , and several office sites . a spokesman said 0 the properties survived without significant damage in last week 's northern california earthquake . as a result of the partial sale and spinoff , the $ 56 billion california public employees retirement system would obtain two seats on the board of the real estate operation , according to officials of the fund , who described the plan . a spokesman for chicago-based santa fe pacific confirmed that negotiations were being held with the fund . also holding two seats each on the board , they said 0 , would be olympia & york developments ltd. , controlled by the reichmann family of canada , and itel corp. , controlled by chicago businessman sam zell . the reichmanns and mr. zell , the largest holders of santa fe pacific stock , have been looking for ways 0 to raise the value of their investments , including possible spinoffs . itel bought a 17 % stake in sante fe pacific last year and olympia & york later purchased about a 20 % stake ; they would have interests in the new realty company in line with their holdings in sante fe pacific . the sale and spinoff of the real estate unit is the first phase of what could lead to the breakup of santa fe pacific into free-standing companies for its railroad and energy operations , as well as real estate . the debt-laden parent has been under pressure from large shareholders to boost the company 's share price . at the same time it has been caught in an earnings squeeze . the california pension fund 's planned investment in the real estate unit is unusual . pension funds rarely own as much as a 20 % stake in what is expected to be a publicly traded company . in addition , pension funds are rarely given seats on company boards and most often try to avoid them because of legal concerns . but fund officials said 0 the santa fe pacific realty investment provides an opportunity to buy a stake in a large real estate portfolio heavily weighted with california properties . it also marks a `` major commitment to -lcb- real estate -rcb- development , which we have n't been involved with before , '' said 0 dale hanson , the fund 's executive director . under the proposed plan , the fund would also lend santa fe pacific realty $ 75 million in the form of a note that would be convertible into additional shares of the realty company after the second year at the then-prevailing market price . the note would accrue interest at the rate of 13.5 % a year , which would be payable to the fund after five years , according to stephen e. roulac , a real estate consultant working for the fund . the purpose of the note is to provide added capital for the spun-off company in a form that will save it spending cash on immediate interest payments , mr. roulac said 0 . the spun-off concern `` clearly will be one of the dominant real estate development companies with a prime portfolio , '' he said 0 . for the last year , santa fe pacific has redirected its real estate operations toward longer-term development of its properties , hurting profits that the parent had generated in the past from periodic sales from its portfolio . real estate operating income for the first nine months fell to $ 71.9 million from $ 143 million a year earlier , the company said 0 . in a statement late yesterday , santa fe pacific 's chairman , robert d. krebs , said that santa fe pacific realty would repay more than $ 500 million in debt owed to the parent before the planned spinoff . that would help reduce santa fe pacific 's remaining debt to about $ 600 million from a high of $ 3.7 billion in early 1988 . it was n't clear where santa fe pacific expected to obtain the payment of more than $ 500 million , which would be well above the $ 400 million that california pension fund officials say 0 they plan to provide . the realty unit might take on new debt or obtain additional investors , among other possibilities . the santa fe pacific spokesman declined to comment on that aspect , saying 0 the deal was still under negotiation . santa fe pacific realty owns 2.8 million acres of property , including 219 buildings with more than 11 million square feet of space . it also holds nearly 40,000 acres of raw land with development potential , but under a previously announced strategy , the company has targeted building on 5,400 acres in california , arizona and the chicago area . among those are the 1,850 acres in the san francisco bay area , including 208 acres in the mission bay area . the california pension fund , which has $ 16 billion already invested in real estate and mortgages , could be a valuable funding source for that development , although it is n't obliged to make further investments . the fund is the nation 's largest public employee fund , and it has a growing cash flow now topping $ 3 billion a year . fund officials negotiated the final structure of the proposed deal with santa fe pacific , but they were approached with the idea by real estate brokers jmb realty corp. of chicago . jmb officials are expected to be hired to represent the pension fund on the santa fe pacific realty board , mr. roulac said 0 , to insulate the fund from potential liability problems .