why ca n't we teach our children to read , write and reckon ? it 's not that we do n't know how to , because we do . it 's that we do n't want to . and the reason 0 we do n't want to is that effective education would require us to relinquish some cherished metaphysical beliefs about human nature in general and the human nature of young people in particular , as well as to violate some cherished vested interests . these beliefs so dominate our educational establishment , our media , our politicians , and even our parents that it seems almost blasphemous to challenge them . here is an example . if i were to ask a sample of american parents , `` do you wish the elementary schools to encourage creativity in your children ? '' the near-unanimous answer would be , `` yes , of course . '' but what do we mean , specifically , by `` creativity '' ? no one can say . in practice , it ends up being equated with a `` self-expression '' that encourages the youngsters ' `` self-esteem . '' the result is a generation of young people whose ignorance and intellectual incompetence is matched only by their good opinion of themselves . the whole notion of `` creativity '' in education was -lrb- and is -rrb- part and parcel of a romantic rebellion against disciplined instruction , which was -lrb- and is -rrb- regarded as `` authoritarian , '' a repression and frustration of the latent talents and the wonderful , if as yet undefined , potentialities inherent in the souls of all our children . it is not surprising that parents find this romantic extravagance so attractive . fortunately , these same parents do want their children to get a decent education as traditionally understood , and they have enough common sense to know what that demands . their commitment to `` creativity '' can not survive adolescent illiteracy . american education 's future will be determined by the degree to which we -- all of us -- allow this common sense to prevail over the illusions that we also share . the education establishment will fight against common sense every inch of the way . the reasons are complex , but one simple reason ought not to be underestimated . `` progressive education '' -lrb- 0 as it was once called -rrb- is far more interesting and agreeable to teachers than is disciplined instruction . it is nice for teachers to think 0 they are engaged in `` personality development '' and even nicer to minimize those irksome tests with often disappointing results . it also provides teachers with a superior self-definition as a `` profession , '' since they will have passed courses in educational psychology and educational philosophy . i myself took such courses in college , thinking 0 i might end up a schoolteacher . they could all fairly be described as `` pap '' courses . but it is unfair to dump on teachers , as distinct from the educational establishment . i know many schoolteachers and , on the whole , they are seriously committed to conscientious teaching . they may not be among the `` best and brightest '' of their generation -- there are very few such people , by definition . but they need not be to do their jobs well . yes , we all can remember one or two truly inspiring teachers from our school days . but our education proceeded at the hands of those others , who were merely competent and conscientious . in this sense , a teacher can be compared to one 's family doctor . if he were brilliant , he probably would not be a family doctor in the first place . if he is competent and conscientious , he serves us well . our teachers are not an important factor in our educational crisis . whether they are or are not underpaid is a problem of equity ; it is not an educational problem . it is silly libel on our teachers to think 0 they would educate our children better if only they got a few thousand dollars a year more . it is the kind of libel 0 the teachers ' unions do n't mind spreading , for their own narrow purposes . it is also the kind of libel 0 politicians find useful , since it helps them strike a friendly posture on behalf of an important constituency . but there is not one shred of evidence that , other things being equal , salary differentials result in educational differentials . if there were such evidence , you can be sure 0 you would have heard of it . if we wish to be serious about american education , we know exactly what to do -- and , just as important , what not to do . there are many successful schools scattered throughout this nation , some of them in the poorest of ghettos , and they are all sending us the same message . conversely , there are the majority of unsuccessful schools , and we know which efforts at educational reform are doomed beforehand . we really do know all 0 we need to know , if only we could assimilate this knowledge into our thinking . in this respect , it would be helpful if our political leaders were mute , rather than eloquently `` concerned . '' they are inevitably inclined to echo the conventional pap , since this is the least controversial option that is open to them . thus at the recent governors ' conference on education , gov. bill clinton of arkansas announced that `` this country needs a comprehensive child-development policy for children under five . '' a comprehensive development policy for governors over 30 would seem to be a more pressing need . what gov. clinton is advocating , in effect , is extending the educational system down to the pre-kindergarten years . whether desirable or not , this is a child-care program , not an educational program . we know that very early exposure to schooling improves performance in the first grade , but afterward the difference is quickly washed away . let us sum up what we do know about education and about those education reforms that do work and do n't work : -- `` parental involvement '' is a bad idea . parents are too likely to blame schools for the educational limitations of their children . parents should be involved with their children 's education at home , not in school . they should see to it that their kids do n't play truant ; they should make certain that the children spend enough time 0 doing homework ; they should scrutinize the report card . if parents are dissatisfied with a school , they should have the option of switching to another . -- `` community involvement '' is an even worse idea . here , the experience of new york city is decisive . locally elected school boards , especially in our larger cities , become the prey of ambitious , generally corrupt , and invariably demagogic local politicians or would-be politicians . new york is in the process of trying to disengage itself from a 20-year-old commitment to this system of school governance , even as chicago and other cities are moving to institute it . -- in most states , increasing expenditures on education , in our current circumstances , will probably make things worse , not better . the reason is simple : education takes place in the classroom , where the influence of money is minimal . decades of educational research tell us unequivocally that even smaller classes have zero effect on the academic performance of the pupils -- though they may sometimes be desirable for other reasons . the new money flows into the already top-heavy administrative structure , which busies itself piling more and more paper work on the teachers . there is neither mystery nor paradox in the fact that as educational expenditures -lrb- in real terms -rrb- have increased sharply in the past quarter-of-a-century -- we now spend more per pupil than any other country in the world -- educational performance has declined . that is the way 0 the system works . -- students should move up the educational ladder as their academic potential allows . no student should be permitted to be graduated from elementary school without having mastered the 3 r 's at the level that prevailed 20 years ago . this means `` tracking , '' whose main purpose is less to permit the gifted youngsters to flourish -lrb- though that is clearly desirable -rrb- than to ensure that the less gifted get the necessary grounding for further study or for entering the modern world of work . the notion that tracking is somehow `` undemocratic '' is absurd . the purpose of education is to encourage young men and women to realize their full academic potential . no one in his right mind actually believes that we all have an equal academic potential . -- it is generally desirable to use older textbooks -- many of them , alas , out of print -- rather than newer ones . the latter are modish , trendy , often downright silly , and at best insubstantial . they are based on dubious psychological and sociological theories rather than on educational experience . one of the reasons 0 american students do so poorly in math tests , as compared with british , french , german or japanese students , is the influence of the `` new math '' on american textbooks and teaching methods . anyone who wants to appreciate just how bizarre this situation is -- with students who ca n't add or subtract `` learning '' the conceptual basis of mathematical theory -- should read the article by caleb nelson -lrb- himself a recent math major at harvard -rrb- in the november american spectator . -- most important of all , schools should have principals with a large measure of authority over the faculty , the curriculum , and all matters of student discipline . study after study -- the most recent from the brookings institution -- tells us that the best schools are those that are free of outside interference and are governed by a powerful head . with that authority , of course , goes an unambiguous accountability . schools that are structured in this way produce students with higher morale and superior academic performance . this is a fact -- though , in view of all the feathers that are ruffled by this fact , it is not surprising that one hears so little about it . mr. kristol , an american enterprise institute fellow , co-edits the public interest and publishes the national interest .