international business machines corp. said 0 it agreed to let motorola inc. participate in a semiconductor research project as part of its effort to bolster the u.s. semiconductor industry . ibm , which made the announcement at the dedication of a research center here , said 0 it invited many other companies to participate as well , including some from europe . jack kuehler , ibm 's president , said 0 ibm is also considering letting other companies participate in additional semiconductor work but declined to be more specific . ibm , which said a year ago 0 it was inviting companies to participate in some semiconductor work , has become far more open about its technology as it has tried to rally u.s. industry to head off the japanese , who now dominate the market for dynamic random access memory chips . while ibm , armonk , n.y. , makes the bulk of the drams 0 it uses , it does n't make the equipment needed to produce those chips . and ibm worries that the japanese will take over that equipment market , too , unless u.s. semiconductor companies produce enough memory chips here 0 to keep u.s. equipment makers healthy . failure of u.s. equipment makers , ibm fears 0 , would leave it dependent on many of the japanese companies that compete with it in other parts of the market . ibm also said 0 it expects to benefit from the expertise that motorola and other companies can bring to bear on the difficult problems involved in semiconductor manufacturing . ibm already participates in one industrywide effort to improve semiconductor-manufacturing techniques . ibm said 0 it expects industrywide efforts to become prevalent because semiconductor manufacturing has become so expensive . a state-of-the-art plant cost $ 40 million in the mid-1970s but costs $ 500 million today because the technology is so complex . and ibm said 0 it expects the costs to continue climbing . ibm , which said 0 motorola is paying just a nominal fee to cover the 21-month agreement , acknowledged 0 some companies had turned down its invitation to join in . but it said 0 that was mainly because the project may not bear fruit until the mid-1990s . ibm said 0 it thought 0 more companies would become interested as the project progresses . the project involving motorola concerns a technique , called x-ray lithography , that figures to be crucial to future generations of memory chips . currently , chips are produced by shining light through a mask to produce an image on the chip , much as a camera produces an image on film . but details on chips must now be extraordinarily fine , and the wavelengths of even ultraviolet light are long enough so that the images 0 they draw may be too blurry -- much as someone using a wide paintbrush could produce a broad line but would have trouble painting a thin one . x-rays , by contrast , travel straighter and can be focused more tightly than light . x-rays have problems , too . they can make the masks brittle and can pass through material 0 they 're not supposed to . but , assuming 0 those problems can be overcome , they should allow for memory chips that could approach one billion bits of information -- 250 times as much as is contained in the four-megabit chips that are just reaching the market and a million times what was possible in the mid-1970s .