federal and state thrift examiners said 0 they saw evidence of criminal wrongdoing in the collapse of lincoln savings & loan association , and a california regulator described an attempted `` whitewash '' by deputies of chief federal regulator danny wall . in a riveting day of hearings before the house banking committee , the examiners described finding shredded documents , a mysterious panamanian subsidiary , millions of dollars funneled into a swiss bank , and a complacent attitude by mr. wall 's deputies , one of whom was portrayed as acting more like a public-relations man for the thrift than a federal regulator . a california official also said 0 he sent the federal bureau of investigation a packet of documents relating to a previously reported $ 400,000 contribution from lincoln 's parent solicited by sen. alan cranston -lrb- d. , calif . -rrb- . federal examiner alex barabolak said 0 lincoln 's operations amounted to `` pyramiding debt to provide a luxurious life style for its owners . '' another federal examiner , john meek , said 0 lincoln 's principal owner , charles keating jr. , and his family drew off at least $ 34 million from the thrift in salaries , bonuses and proceeds from securities sales in the 3 1\/2 years before federal authorities seized it earlier this year . lincoln 's collapse may cost taxpayers as much as $ 2.5 billion , according to estimates , making it the most expensive thrift failure in history . `` i think 0 there 's overwhelming evidence 0 to indicate probable criminal activity , '' said mr. meek , who participated last year in an examination of the irvine , calif. , thrift . he said 0 the evidence pointed to wrongdoing by mr. keating `` and others , '' although he did n't allege any specific violation . richard newsom , a california state official who last year examined lincoln 's parent , american continental corp. , said 0 he also saw evidence that crimes had been committed . `` it sure smells like it , '' he said . he said 0 30 % of the loans 0 he sampled were `` dead meat on the day 0 they were made . '' the state examiner also said 0 supervisors of a parallel federal examination seemed so reluctant to demand write-downs of lincoln 's bad loans that he immediately grew suspicious . `` later on , my concerns about a whitewash became even more serious , '' he said . he called the sour loans `` appalling '' and added , `` you opened the file up and it just jumped at you . '' leonard bickwit , a washington attorney for lincoln 's parent corporation , said in an interview , `` we deny any criminal behavior by the association or its officers . '' `` those who testified -lcb- yesterday -rcb- have consistently maintained that anyone who did n't agree with them is part of a coverup , a whitewash , or the subject of excessive influence , '' mr. bickwit said . `` we simply do n't agree with that or the findings of their investigation . '' mr. wall 's deputies complained that they had n't been given an opportunity to respond to the criticism brought out during the banking committee 's hearings , which committee chairman henry gonzalez -lrb- d. , texas -rrb- has used as a forum to flay mr. wall 's handling of the affair and to demand that he step aside from his job . `` a couple of things 0 mr. newsom said were at least misleading , '' said kevin o'connell , one of the washington regulators responsible for the handling of lincoln . in an interview , he said 0 federal regulators eventually declared one of the loans 0 the state regulator cited to be a total loss , and forced lincoln to make an $ 18 million downward adjustment on another . `` our response to the whitewash would simply be , 0 look what happened , '' another washington official , alvin smuzynski , said in an interview . federal officials seized the association in april , a day after the parent corporation entered bankruptcy-law proceedings . the government later brought a $ 1.1 billion fraud suit against mr. keating and others . rep. gonzalez has complained that regulators waited far too long , however , ignoring a recommendation from regional officials to place lincoln into receivership two years before it failed . `` he took the reckless course of ignoring the evidence , '' rep. gonzalez said . state thrift examiner eugene stelzer said 0 he found the chief federal examiner steve scott to be totally uninterested in one allegedly fraudulent series of transactions . `` frankly , it was like he worked for the lincoln public-relations department , '' mr. stelzer testified . and david riley , a federal examiner who worked under mr. scott , said 0 he found his chief oddly upbeat about lincoln . asked to comment , a spokesman for mr. scott said : `` mr. scott has spoken to his attorney , who has advised him not to talk to anybody . '' mr. meek said that a day or two before lincoln 's parent entered bankruptcy proceedings , he and other examiners saw `` a truck with a sign on it that said 0 it was from the ` document destruction center . ' we observed at least two large plastic bags of shredded paper loaded into this truck . '' mr. bickwit said 0 the paper had been donated to `` a charitable organization that sells it for recycling . they shredded it simply because it contained financial information about their creditors and depositors . '' mr. meek said 0 his suspicions were aroused by several foreign investments by lincoln , including $ 22 million paid to credit suisse of switzerland , an $ 18 million interest in saudi european bank in paris , a $ 17.5 million investment in a bahamas trading company , and a recently discovered holding in a panama-based company , southbrook holdings . mr. bickwit said , `` i can see why an s&l examiner would regard these as unusual activities , '' but said 0 the overseas investments `` essentially broke even '' for the s&l .