i approached `` mastergate , '' larry gelbart 's new comedy at the criterion center , with considerable trepidation . nothing , i assumed 0 , would be more hopelessly dated than a political satire on the iran-contra affair . i had underestimated , however , both mr. gelbart 's wit and the persistence of scandal in washington . though the play clearly is framed around the events of iran-contra , it takes in the wide sweep of scandals over the past 30 years . in fact , at one point merry chase -lrb- melinda mullins -rrb- , a cool , carefully coiffed television announcer , recites a list of a dozen or more scandals of recent years , concluding with those affecting the department of housing and urban development and the savings and loan industry . onstage , a congressional hearing is in progress , complete with elegant crystal chandelier overhead and a lifesize reproduction of the signing of the constitution in the background . the witness table is center stage and below it , the paraphernalia for the ever-present media , in this case tnn , the total news network . not only are there camera operators on all sides , but the proceedings are shown on monitors throughout the theater . the metaphor of theater is not entirely coincidental . mr. gelbart clearly feels that all the participants in a congressional hearing -- the witnesses , the lawyers , the interrogators and the news media -- are performers . as the story of `` mastergate '' unfolds , we learn that the internal revenue service confiscated one of the properties of a foreign financier who owes the government millions in taxes . the man , it seems 0 , has a lichtenstein corporation , licensed in libya and sheltered in the bahamas . he himself lives in a `` consecutive series of unnumbered houses in a town in switzerland . '' the property seized by the irs is a hollywood film studio , master pictures incorporated -lrb- mpi -rrb- . supposedly the irs will sell off the assets of mpi , but before it can , a lowly irs agent is called into the hospital room of wylie slaughter , the dying head of the central intelligence agency . the lowly agent , abel lamb , who as you might guess 0 , is being led to the slaughter , is ordered to take over the studio . soon the studio is producing a $ 40 million picture called `` tet , the motion picture , '' to distinguish it from `` tet , the offensive , '' as well as `` tet , the book '' and `` tet , the album . '' the picture , 0 to be made in the central american country of san elvador , is a cover for sending $ 800 million of arms to los otros , the rebel group attempting to regain neighboring ambigua , which has been taken over by the leftist dictator dr. overtega , a former podiatrist , who leads a revolutionary band of foot soldiers . the man handling all this for the now-deceased slaughter is major manley battle , mr. gelbart 's stand in for col. oliver north . director michael engler has assembled a top-flight cast 0 to carry out the impersonations of well-known political figures and to play the stock characters who invariably show up at congressional hearings . daniel von bargen is ramrod-stiff but totally assured as major battle , mixing just the right brand of self-righteousness and patriotism ; jeff weiss is fire , brimstone and teary-eyed emotionalism as the far-right senator who serves as a friendly interrogator of major battle ; zach grenier is maddeningly officious playing a succession of lawyers ; joseph daly has the perfect `` aw , shucks '' demeanor of george bush in his portrayal of the vice president ; and ann mcdonough is first-rate as a succession of witnesses ' wives . with one she is pregnant , with major battle she is knitting an american flag , and as the vice president 's wife she rushes in with white hair , wearing a tailored suit and pearls , imitating barbara bush 's gestures down to the last detail . though it 's clear that mr. gelbart 's sympathies do not lie with the far right , it 's also true that he is evenhanded in dispensing his satirical jabs , taking sharp aim at senators and congressmen of all stripes and particularly at the media . mr. gelbart also has fun with language . `` mastergate '' is subtitled `` a play on words , '' and mr. gelbart plays that game as well as anyone . he describes a mastergate flunky as one who experienced a `` meteoric disappearance '' and found himself `` handling blanket appeals at the bureau of indian affairs . '' this interest in words goes beyond puns and playfulness , however . mr. gelbart deplores the obfuscation , the circumlocution and the debasement of language 0 he sees on all sides . as the hearings begin , the self-important sen. bowman -lrb- jerome kilty -rrb- announces : `` let me emphaticize one thing at the outset : we are not looking for hides 0 to skin nor goats 0 to scape . '' major battle himself speaks in pure pentagonese : `` without further monetary-stroke-military aid , scores of ambiguan freedom lovers , who had gone way out on their life and limbs for us , were literally cut off at the knees without a paddle . '' at another point he intones : `` publicity is a small price 0 to pay for secrecy . '' the evening is short -- 95 minutes without an intermission -- but even so , as the play progresses the thrust of mr. gelbart 's satire loses its sharpness as his targets pop up ever more predictably . most of the evening , though , is filled with rare and welcome wit . in `` mastergate , '' mr. gelbart has provided us not just one but two commodities that have all but disappeared from the broadway theater : sharp political satire and an even sharper appreciation of the value of language .