`` hacksaw '' and `` bonecrusher '' are the sort of nicknames normally associated with linebackers and heavyweight contenders . who 'd have thought that the next group of tough guys carrying around reputations like that would be school superintendents ? chicago 's new school chief is the hard-nosed ted kimbrough . at his old job in compton , calif. , he took a bitter teachers ' strike and nearly came to blows with a school-board member . at his first chicago press conference , he berated the reporters . in new york city , the new chancellor , joseph fernandez , has landed like a 16-inch shell in the middle of a system that has been impervious to serious reform . both men fit the mood of the times -- the mood being one of a public fed up with officials ' rationalizations for why their schools do n't work . former patterson , n.j. , principal joe clark was no doubt the general public 's first experience with this new breed of no-nonsense administrator . the subject of the movie `` lean on me , '' mr. clark controlled his school with a bullhorn and a baseball bat . he may have gone overboard in his pursuit of good discipline , but is n't it interesting that some of the country 's biggest , most troubled school districts are choosing new chiefs from the same gravel-chewing mold ? elena scambio , the woman assigned to run the jersey city school system that was taken over by the state , says 0 her top priority will be to `` cut through the dead hand of bureaucracy . '' mr. fernandez does n't take control in new york until january , but already he 's roiling the waters . he 's attacked the concept of `` building tenure , '' one of the most disgraceful institutions in american public schools . it means 0 it is virtually impossible to fire or even transfer incompetent principals . once they are in the building , they stay . one south bronx principal kept his job for 16 years , despite a serious drinking problem and rarely showing up for work . he was finally given leave when he was arrested for allegedly buying crack . naturally , the principals ' union loves building tenure , and tenure has withstood previous challenge . we suggest that mr. fernandez find an incompetent principal , toss him out of the building and let the forces of the status quo explain to the parents whatever it is 0 they 're defending . in his old job , as dade county chief , mr. fernandez forced out 92 teachers and reshuffled 48 principals . he cut the dropout rate by 5.5 % . but the no-more-nonsense superintendents are going to have to be judicious as well ; incompetent principals and administrators should go , but the good ones ought to be left alone . the situation will be especially delicate for mr. kimbrough . he takes over a school system in the midst of radical reform . chicagoans have just elected 540 neophyte school boards , one for each school . this of course led to disaster in new york city . getting a community of parents to care again about its schools is essential , but in chicago the new boards will make mistakes and mr. kimbrough will have to identify them . the rise of superintendents such as joseph fernandez and ted kimbrough suggests plainly the process of disintegration in many school systems . the schools ' central mission , educating children , became subsumed by the competing interests of bureaucrats , politicians and unions . the classroom itself operated on the periphery of this awful system , discipline collapsed , and kids stopped learning . mr. chips was a nice fellow , and maybe some day he 'll return . until then , it 's clear that some of the people who 've been keeping big-city schools down are going to be dealing with the terminator .