one day last march , cbs sports president neal pilson and olympics superagent barry frank met for lunch at the lotos club here . mr. frank told mr. pilson that olympics officials wanted $ 290 million or more for tv rights to the 1994 winter games in norway . the cbs official said 0 that price sounded fine . at that price , cbs was the only player at the table when negotiations with the international olympic committee started in toronto aug. 23 . dick pound , a committee member , began by disclosing that abc and nbc had refused to even bid . then , he asked mr. pilson to raise his offer anyway : `` if we can have a number that starts with a three , you can have a dea . '' mr. pilson and his team huddled in a hallway and took just 10 minutes to return with a $ 300 million offer . mr. pound responded , `` it 's a deal . '' a beaming mr. pilson announced his lastest coup at a news conference that afternoon . mr. pilson 's rivals at abc and nbc grimaced at the price . how could cbs get pushed into outbidding itself ? well , cbs , mired in the ratings cellar and looking to sports as a way out , wanted to close the deal immediately and block its rivals from getting another chance to bid . but mr. pilson has been put in the uncomfortable role of setting off a bidding frenzy for sports rights , a frenzy that the networks had hoped to avoid . `` the price of poker has gone up , '' crows charles m. neinas , the college football association 's executive director . with cbs inc. on a spending spree that may top $ 2.5 billion for four years of major sports events , the new bout of hyperinflation could jolt the entire broadcast business . cbs itself could run up losses of a few hundred million dollars on four years of various sports if its big gamble goes wrong . abc , a unit of capital cities\/abc inc. , and general electric co. 's national broadcasting co. also risk losses if they outbid cbs for other contracts . while rights fees head skyward , ad rates wo n't . advertisers already are balking at higher prices . `` the networks are paying too much for rights , '' warns adman paul isacsson of young & rubicam . `` if they ask advertisers to absorb the costs , they 're likely to lose all but a few who need sports , above all . '' viewers may not be cheering , either . soaring rights fees will lead to an even greater clutter of commercials . at the same time , some sports events will move off `` free '' television and onto cable or pay-cable , where half the nation 's tv homes ca n't see them . cbs has changed the rules by throwing out the old basis for sports bids -- that is , can the network alone make a profit on it ? mr. pilson emphasizes the ancillary benefits of positive press , contented affiliate stations , enthusiastic advertisers and huge audiences that might stick around to watch other cbs programs when the game is over . the billion-dollar question is , how much are those benefits worth ? some tv people doubt 0 they will materialize and argue that even if they do , they wo n't offset the multimillion-dollar deficits that cbs could run up . `` as we 've seen in the '80s , '' says roger werner , the president of the espn sports channel , `` those deals can turn sour if the numbers do n't work . and three years later , in a sea of red ink , the heroes can find themselves with a lot of explaining 0 to do . '' cbs pursues top sports `` to belie the fact that they are n't supporting affiliates , viewers and advertisers , '' charges 0 thomas h. wyman , who was ousted as chairman of cbs inc. after laurence a. tisch bought a 24.9 % stake in the company and took over three years ago . `` they lost the entertainment crown , and they needed one . and they 've bought one . '' on just three big deals -- for four years of baseball and for the olympic winter games in both 1992 and 1994 -- pilson bid a total of $ 1.64 billion . that 's well over half a billion dollars more than abc and nbc were willing to pay . -lrb- after 1992 , the winter and summer olympics will be held two years apart , with the revised schedule beginning with the winter games in 1994 and the summer games in 1996 . -rrb- now , mr. pilson -- a former college basketball player who says 0 a good negotiator needs `` a level of focus and intellectual attention '' similar to a good athlete-s is facing the consequences of his own aggressiveness . next month , talks will begin on two coveted cbs contracts , for the pro and college basketball finals . cbs is likely to spend whatever it takes to keep them . the potential bill : more than $ 600 million for several seasons , an 80 % jump . a few months later , cbs 's college and pro football contracts come up for renewal ; they could go for close to $ 100 million more than cbs now pays , a 40 % to 50 % rise . `` what happens to those two basketball contracts will shape the next five years of network sports , '' says peter lund , a former cbs sports president now at multimedia inc . j. william grimes , former president of espn , says 0 nbc may `` come in with a huge bid for college basketball to take it away from cbs and say , ` we can overbid , too . ' and the winners will be the colleges , not either network . nor , by the way , advertisers . '' mr. pilson is an unlikely big spender . in the mid-1980s , after abc had just bid a record $ 309 million for the 1988 winter games , he sniped at rivals for paying reckless prices . `` i love pilson , but he was the guy who complained most bitterly and loudly , '' says robert wussler , a former cbs sports president . `` and yet his company is one reason why rights are so high today . '' rivals carp at `` the principle of pilson , '' as nbc 's arthur watson once put it -- `` he 's always expounding that rights are too high , then he 's going crazy . '' but the 49-year-old mr. pilson is hardly a man 0 to ignore the numbers . a yale law school graduate , he began his career in corporate law and then put in years at metromedia inc. and the william morris talent agency . in 1976 , he joined cbs sports to head business affairs and , five years later , became its president . mr. pilson says that when he spoke out a few years ago , `` i did n't say forever , and i did n't say every property . '' the market changed , he adds 0 . and he is n't the only big spender : nbc will pay a record $ 401 million for the 1992 summer games , and espn , 80%-owned by capital cities\/abc , will shell out $ 400 million for four years of baseball , airing 175 regular-season games a year . `` our competitors say 0 we overbid them . who cares ? maybe we recognize values 0 the other guys do n't , '' mr. pilson says . mr. pilson 's `` major events '' strategy jelled after mr. tisch took over . mr. pilson recalls that in april 1986 , after cbs 's annual meeting in philadelphia , he and mr. tisch took the 90-minute train ride back to new york , and mr. pilson used this extended private audience to outline his ambitions . mr. tisch , a billionaire in hotels and finance , was just learning the tv business . five months later , mr. tisch took over as cbs 's chief executive , and soon he was wielding sole approval each time 0 mr. pilson scribbled a frighteningly large figure on a slip of paper , sealed it in an envelope and gave it to sports negotiators . then , in may 1988 , mr. tisch urgently needed to make a bold statement to quell rumors that he might sell the network . mr. pilson gave him one : he bid $ 243 million for rights to the 1992 winter games in albertville , france ; abc and nbc would n't bid even $ 200 million . that started the still-raging bidding wars . the `` major events '' strategy , mr. pilson says 0 , is designed to notch a place for cbs on the crowded tv dial of the 1990s . it 's also a fast fix for an ailing image . he sees flashy sports as the only way 0 the last-place network can cut through the clutter of cable and vcrs , grab millions of new viewers and tell them about other shows premiering a few weeks later . next october , cbs , for the first time , wo n't have to start the season against the much-watched american and national baseball league championships and the world series . `` i 've been struggling against that for years , '' says jonathan rodgers , who runs wbbm-tv , the cbs-owned station in chicago . even if baseball triggers losses at cbs -- and he does n't think 0 it will -- `` i 'd rather see the games on our air than on nbc and abc , '' he says 0 . that is n't surprising . regular tv series ratings have slumped in the past five years , and premiering new shows is `` a crap shoot , '' mr. pilson says 0 . but top sports events are still a strong bet to lure audiences 30 % or 40 % larger than those 0 cbs usually gets . mr. pilson says baseball and the olympics may help cbs move up to no. 2 in the household ratings race , putting pizazz back into the network 's image . and the winter olympics will air during the february `` sweeps , '' when ratings are used to set ad rates for local stations . that will please once-grumpy affiliates -- another aim of the pilson plan . they gleefully await the `` dream season '' in 1990 . cbs will air the super bowl , baseball playoffs , college and pro basketball finals and other premier sports events . `` it 's made me more committed to cbs , '' says philip a. jones , the president of meredith corp. 's broadcast group , which has two cbs affiliates . the cbs plan to use big-time sports as a platform for other series carries no guarantee of success , however . no amount of hype will bring viewers back if the shows are weak . `` in this market of 40 channels , sophisticated viewers and the remote control , trial is n't a guarantee of anything , '' espn 's mr. werner says . `` if the show ai n't a killer , they 're gone . '' during the 1984 summer games , for example , abc touted `` call to glory , '' but the military drama was missing in action within weeks . last october , during the 1988 summer games , nbc relentlessly pitched a new series , `` tattingers . '' it belly-flopped anyway . moreover , sports is hardly the best way 0 to lure adult women . though cbs might move up to no. 2 in household ratings , most advertisers buy based on ratings for women aged 18 to 49 . cbs may remain a distant no. 3 in that regard . nor is cbs a shoo-in 0 to get blockbuster ratings . in recent years , the world series and the olympics were aired against cbs 's last-place lineup . but cbs will put the athletes up against bill cosby , `` cheers '' and other shows in nbc 's no. 1 schedule . even the boon to affiliate relations may be limited . the sports lineup may add only 1 % to 5 % to a station 's annual profits . it alone is n't likely to stop a station from dumping cbs shows . `` the world series , seven nights , was n't enough of an incentive , '' says arnold klinsky of whec-tv in rochester , which dropped cbs for nbc six weeks ago . `` you 've got to judge where the network will be in three years . '' the intangible benefits may prove extremely costly if cbs ca n't avoid big losses on the sports coverage itself . and avoiding such losses will take a monumental effort . on the $ 1.06 billion baseball agreement alone , cbs is likely to lose $ 250 million in four years , contends 0 mr. wussler , the former cbs man , now at comsat inc . nevertheless , he deems the deal `` plain smart '' for its huge promotional value . mr. pilson calls that loss estimate `` wildly inaccurate , '' conceding only that cbs will lose money on baseball in the first year . `` it 's too early to tell '' what happens after that , he says 0 . but mr. tisch expects losses in all four years of the contract , he told u.s. senators 0 last june . cbs will pay an average of $ 82 million more each year than abc and nbc had paid together -- and those two networks expect losses on baseball this season . yet cbs will air only 12 regular-season games , 26 fewer than abc and nbc . that has outraged some fans . it also indicates a $ 50 million drop in ad sales for regular-season games -- a risk 0 cbs took to get an unprecedented lock on all playoff games . if the playoffs end in four-game sweeps , losses could soar . advertisers are resisting higher prices , which would help close the gap . cbs signed general motors and toyota to be the only auto-maker sponsors in baseball for four years . price : $ 265 million . but ad executives who negotiated the deal say 0 that works out to only $ 275,000 for a 30-second ad in the world series through 1993 -- 17 % less than what abc is charging for the series this month . moreover , `` there 's no question 0 ad rates will come down considerably '' from the gm-toyota price , says 0 arnold chase of bozell inc . other admen , however , say 0 rates could rise later if ad spending surges . the winter games outlook also is mixed . cbs expects to make modest profits , but rivals contend that it will take a beating . abc lost $ 75 million on the 1988 winter games , partly because of its $ 309 million rights fee . it aired 94.5 hours of mostly live events in calgary -- helping raise ratings slightly from 1984 -- but still failed to deliver the audience promised to advertisers . cbs will add 25 1\/2 hours to that load in 1992 , and ratings could be hurt by a lack of live events . all prime-time fare will be on tape-delay because of time differences with norway , so the results can be announced on the 6 o'clock news . -lrb- turner broadcasting will pay cbs $ 25 million to air 50 hours of cbs coverage plus 50 hours of additional events . -rrb- barry frank , the agent who took mr. pilson to lunch last march , says that even if cbs loses , say , $ 10 million , it matters little . `` ten million ai n't jack , man , when you got $ 3 billion sitting in the bank , '' says mr. frank , senior vice president at international management group , citing cbs 's enormous cash reserves from selling off various businesses . `` it does n't mean anything -- it 's public-relations money . '' moreover , sports has `` claimed its place '' as a guaranteed ratings-getter , says 0 david j. stern , the commissioner of the national basketball association . `` this is n't outlandish bidding ; this is a situation of very careful businessmen making judgments about the worth of product and acting on it ... . i would tend to trust their judgment . '' that 's easy 0 for him to say : cbs 's four-year nba pact , now at $ 176 million for four years , could double in price by the time 0 his talks with mr. pilson are completed later this month . that would cut into cbs 's slim margin for profit -- and error . cbs sports earned $ 50 million or so last year . and cbs takes in the least money in prime time ; abc and nbc charge 30 % to 35 % more for ads , according to a variety survey . but cbs 's costs are huge , and the risks go up with each new sports package that cbs locks up . although sports officials predict jumps of 50 % to 100 % in the major contracts coming up for renewal , ad rates may rise only 20 % . cbs hopes to save money by ordering fewer episodes of regular series because sports will fill up a few weeks of prime time . but the savings will be minuscule . each hour of olympics and baseball in prime time will cost cbs $ 2.6 million to $ 2.8 million ; an hour-long drama costs only $ 900,000 , and it is aired twice . cbs may cushion losses with about $ 200 million a year in interest earned on the proceeds from selling cbs records and other businesses . but media-stock analyst richard j. macdonald of macdonald grippo riely says 0 wall street wo n't take kindly to that . `` on a stand-alone basis , the network ought to make money , '' he says . when mr. pilson is asked directly -- can you make money on all this ? -- he does n't exactly say yes . `` what you 're really asking is , are the profit and loss margins anticipated on the events acceptable to management ? '' he says . then , he answers his own question . `` yes , they are . that 's the only question 0 we need to address .