few people are aware that the federal government lends almost as much money as it borrows . from 1980 to 1988 , while federal budget deficits totaled $ 1.41 trillion , the government issued $ 394 billion of new direct loans and an additional $ 756 billion of new primary loan guarantees . these figures omit secondary guarantees , deposit insurance , and the activities of government-sponsored enterprises -lrb- a huge concern in its own right , as detailed on this page may 3 -rrb- . federal credit programs date back to the new deal , and were meant to break even financially . since the 1950s , federal lending has experienced extraordinary growth in credit volume , subsidy rates , and policy applications , spurred on by the growth of government in general and budget gimmicks and deceptive management in particular . as we will see , many of these obligations do n't show up as part of the federal deficit . but recent events indicate 0 that federal credit is out of control . student loan defaults remain high at about 12 % , and the program has been rocked by allegations of fraud and mismanagement . farmers home administration -lrb- fmha -rrb- loans have turned into de facto giveaway programs ; losses over the next three years are expected to exceed $ 20 billion . defaults on veterans affairs loan guarantees have quadrupled in the past eight years . last month , the general accounting office reported that defaults in federal housing administration guarantees were five times as high as previously estimated , and that fha 's equity fell to minus $ 2.9 billion . gao 's findings are particularly troubling because the fha has about $ 300 billion in obligations outstanding and had previously been considered one of the most financially secure credit programs . scores of other credit programs , subsidizing agriculture , small business , exporters , defense , energy , transportation and others , are less visible but in no better shape . if the programs continue their present path , the potential government losses are staggering : the federal government holds $ 222 billion in direct loans outstanding and backs an additional $ 550 billion in primary guarantees . -lrb- secondary guarantees of pools of fha - and va-backed loans by the agency known as ginnie mae currently exceed $ 330 billion . -rrb- although external events have contributed to the morass , the principal causes of the current crisis are internal and generic to all programs . to reduce the risks while still retaining the legitimate benefits 0 these programs can provide , credit policy must : 1 . use credit to improve the operation of capital markets , not to provide subsidies . there is a fundamental conflict between providing a subsidy and maintaining the integrity of a credit program . if the program is meant to provide a subsidy , collecting the debt defeats the original goal . thus , subsidized loans tend to turn into giveaway programs , with increasing subsidy and default rates over time . to avoid this problem , government should issue credit only if it intends to use every legal method to collect . in contrast , credit programs can be appropriate tools 0 to improve the operation of capital markets . for example , legal restrictions on interstate banking once inhibited the supply of credit to the agricultural sector . farm lending was enacted to correct this problem by providing a reliable flow of lendable funds . however , this in no way justifies the huge government subsidies and losses on such loans . credit policy should separate these two competing objectives and eliminate aspects that provide the subsidy . for example , student loans currently attempt to subsidize college attendance and mitigate problems created by the fact that students ' future earnings are not accepted as collateral . the program provides highly subsidized loans to any student whose family earns less than a particular amount . high default rates , a low interest rate , and government coverage of all interest costs while the student is in school make program costs extremely high . families that do not need the loan can make money simply by putting the loan in the bank and paying it back when the student graduates . in contrast , a student loan program that was meant solely to correct capital-market imperfections would allow loans for any student , regardless of family income , at market or near-market rates . while the student was in school , interest costs would either be paid by the student or added to the loan balance . this program , combined with cash grants to needy students , would reduce program costs and much more effectively target the intended beneficiaries . 2 . provide better incentives . given the structure of most credit programs , it is surprising that default rates are not even higher . guarantee rates are typically 100 % , giving lenders little reason 0 to screen customers carefully . reducing those rates moderately -lrb- say , to 75 % -rrb- would still provide substantial assistance to borrowers . but it would also encourage lenders to choose more creditworthy customers , and go a long way toward reducing defaults . for example , the small business administration has had reasonable success in reducing both guarantee rates and default rates in its preferred lenders ' program . borrowers ' incentives are equally skewed . since the government has a dismal record of collecting bad debts , the costs to the borrower of defaulting are usually low . in addition , it is often possible to obtain a new government loan even if existing debts are not paid off . simple policy prescriptions in this case would be to improve debt collection -lrb- taking the gloves off contracted collection agencies -rrb- and to deny new credit to defaulters . these provisions would be difficult 0 to enforce for a program intended to provide a subsidy , but would be reasonable and effective devices for programs that attempt to offset market imperfections . 3 . record the true costs of credit programs in the federal budget . since the budget measures cash flow , a new $ 1 direct loan is treated as a $ 1 expenditure , even though at least part of the loan will be paid back . loan guarantees do n't appear at all until the borrower defaults , so new guarantees do not raise the deficit , even though they create future liabilities for the government . by converting an expenditure or loan to a guarantee , the government can ensure the same flow of resources and reduce the current deficit . predictably , guarantees outstanding have risen by $ 130 billion since 1985 , while direct loans outstanding have fallen by $ 30 billion . the true budgetary cost of a credit subsidy is the discounted value of the net costs to government . this figure could be estimated using techniques employed by private lenders to forecast losses , or determined by selling loans to private owners -lrb- without federal guarantees -rrb- . neither technique is perfect , but both are better than the current system , which misstates the costs of new credit programs by amounts that vary substantially and average about $ 20 billion annually , according to the congressional budget office . a budget that reflected the real costs of lending would eliminate incentives to convert spending or lending programs to guarantees and would let taxpayers know what congress is committing them to . 4 . impose standard accounting and administrative practices . creative accounting is a hallmark of federal credit . many agencies roll over their debt , paying off delinquent loans by issuing new loans , or converting defaulted loan guarantees into direct loans . in any case , they avoid having to write off the loans . some agencies simply keep bad loans on the books ; as late as 1987 , the export-import bank held in its portfolio at face value loans made to cuba in the 1950s . more seriously , fmha has carried several billion dollars of defaulted loans at face value . until gao 's recent audit , fha books had not been subject to a complete external audit in 15 years . the administration of federal credit should closely parallel private lending practices , including the development of a loan loss reserve and regular outside audits . establishing these practices would permit earlier identification of emerging financial crises , provide better information for loan sales and budgeting decisions , and reduce fraud . government lending was not intended to be a way 0 to obfuscate spending figures , hide fraudulent activity , or provide large subsidies . the reforms described above would provide a more limited , but clearer , safer and ultimately more useful role for government as a lender . without such reforms , credit programs will continue to be a large-scale , high-risk proposition for taxpayers . mr. gale is an assistant professor of economics at ucla .