a bitter conflict with global implications has erupted between nomura securities co. and industrial bank of japan , two of the world 's most powerful financial companies . the clash is a sign of a new toughness and divisiveness in japan 's once-cozy financial circles . not only are japan 's financial institutions putting their enormous clout to work ; increasingly they 're squaring off against one another in unprecedented public fashion . already , the consequences are being felt by other players in the financial markets -- even governments . what triggered the latest clash was a skirmish over the timing of a new zealand government bond issue . nomura was attempting to organize the 50 billion-yen -lrb- $ 352 million -rrb- borrowing in japan at a time when many japanese banks , led by industrial bank of japan , were pressuring the wellington government to help them recover loans made to a defunct investment bank that had been owned by new zealand 's civil-service pension fund . unwilling to put up new money for new zealand until those debts are repaid , most banks refused even to play administrative roles in the new financing , forcing an embarrassed nomura to postpone it this week . the dispute shows clearly the global power of japan 's financial titans . aside from nomura 's injured pride , the biggest victim so far has been the new zealand government . barred by its budget law from making any new domestic bond issues , wellington 's debt management office had been casting abroad to raise the 3 billion new zealand dollars -lrb- us$ 1.76 billion -rrb- to nz$ 4 billion 0 it needs to come up with by the end of its fiscal year next june 30 . with japan 's cash-flush banks aligned against it , though , raising money may be difficult . not only can they block wellington from raising money in japan , bankers here say 0 , but as the largest underwriters in the eurobond market , they might be able to scuttle borrowings there , too . new zealand 's finance minister , david caygill , lashed out at such suggestions . he told reporters in wellington tuesday that the government had n't guaranteed the loans to dfc new zealand ltd. , an investment bank 80%-owned by the national provident fund , and would n't bail it out . `` it may very well be what the japanese banks want , '' he told radio new zealand . `` i think 0 it would be irresponsible and i am not about to be blackmailed by japanese banks or any other international interests . '' no less significant than the japanese banks ' attempt to cut off funds to pressure a foreign government are the implications of a confrontation between japan securities and banking industries . anxiety is rising over recent government proposals to eventually lower the strict barriers that now separate -- and protect -- the two industries from each other . both sides are jealously guarding their turf , and relations have been at a flashpoint for months . the banks badly want to break into all aspects of the securities business . meanwhile , the securities companies -- most of them smaller than the banks -- are seeking access only to limited kinds of banking that would n't open them to the full brunt of competition from the banks . nomura , the world 's biggest securities company largely by virtue of its protected home field , and industrial bank of japan , japan 's most innovative and aggressive bank in capital markets abroad , captain the opposing sides . and their suspicions of each other run deep . in the past year , both have tried to stretch the limits of their businesses . nomura started a credit-card venture with american express co. that allowed cardholders to use their nomura securities accounts like a bank account , attracting the wrath of banks . and industrial bank of japan started up a london securities subsidiary that sells japanese stocks to non-japanese institutions overseas , a move that stirred the anger of the stock brokerage firms . the new zealand bond issue simply has brought the two institutions face-to-face .