oil spill case shows liability fund flaws an unresolved two-year-old dispute stemming from an alaskan oil spill has helped spur a drive for tougher federal laws 0 to protect victims of such accidents . the class-action suit highlights shortcomings of the trans-alaska pipeline liability fund , which gets its money from oil companies using the pipeline and compensates those harmed by oil spills . on july 2 , 1987 , the tanker s.s. glacier bay struck a rock and spilled almost 150,000 gallons of oil into the cook inlet . commercial fishermen and fish processors filed suit in federal court in a claim that has ballooned to more than $ 104.8 million . defendants include british petroleum america ; trinidad corp. , the shipper ; and the pipeline liability fund . the fund was created by the trans-alaska pipeline act , which provides that the owner or operator of a vessel involved in an oil spill must pay the first $ 14 million in damages . the fund is required to pay claims up to an additional $ 86 million . the fund 's purpose is to provide quick and adequate relief . but the glacier bay case , the fund 's first test , shows how easily the fund can be undermined . trinidad corp. is contesting liability . it claims 0 the coast guard failed to chart the rock and refuses to pay damages . that means 0 the fund is n't obligated to pay anything , at least so far . the oil pollution act , scheduled to come up for a vote in congress this fall , would provide that if claimants are n't paid within 90 days of a spill , the liability fund would compensate them and seek reimbursement from the owner or operator of the vessel , says 0 a spokesman for rep. george miller -lrb- d. , calif. -rrb- , a sponsor of the bill . the spokesman says 0 the `` glitch '' in the statute is `` the worst kind of catch-22 . '' many law school grads find 0 classes never end recent law school graduates are starting jobs with law firms this fall -- and heading back to class . bar associations and consultants are offering more programs 0 to teach associates all 0 they need to know about law but did n't learn in law school . `` law school teaches wonderful theory , but it does n't teach the nuts and bolts of practical lawyering , '' says aaron weitz , head of a new york county lawyers ' association committee that sponsors such a course . in the past , associates learned the basics from senior lawyers who acted as mentors . but these days , large firms hire as many as 30 new associates a year , and it 's impossible to personally train everyone , says 0 joel henning of hildebrandt inc. , a consulting firm that runs training classes . the hildebrandt course enables students to brush up on negotiation skills by role playing in simulated deals . students also are taught to return clients ' phone calls immediately and to treat the support staff with respect . many law firms sponsor their own programs . at the baltimore firm of weinberg & green , new corporate and banking associates are required to enroll in a 20-class course . partners lecture on how to form corporations , draft agreements and defend clients against unwanted tender offers . now , clients know that new associates have had some practical training before working on their cases , says 0 james j. hanks , a partner at the firm . los angeles creates a courthouse for kids the children of los angeles will soon have their own $ 52 million courthouse . the building , which will handle child abuse , custody and foster care cases , will be `` less formal , less threatening and just basically less grim than most courthouses , '' says 0 edmund edelman , chairman of the los angeles county board of supervisors . designs call for an l-shaped structure with a playground in the center . there will be recreation and movie rooms . teens will be able to listen to music with headsets . study halls , complete with reference materials , will be available . and there will be a nurse 's station and rooms 0 for children to meet with social workers . the building 's 25 courtrooms will be smaller , says 0 charlene saunders , a court administrator . the bench will be lower so the judge seems less intimidating , and walls will be painted in bright colors and covered with murals . cases in los angeles county involving dependent children are usually heard in the criminal courts building . `` we need to get the kids away from the criminals into a less traumatic environment , '' says mr. edelman . about 45,000 children in los angeles county are under court supervision , mr. edelman says 0 , and an average of 1,500 new children are added each month . the courthouse , to be built in monterey park , is expected to open in the spring of 1992 . law firm management can be quite rewarding it pays to follow a management career path -- even at law firms . that 's the conclusion of a recent study of large law firms conducted by altman & weil inc. , an ardmore , pa. , law firm consultant . its survey of 96 firms , each with 100 to 1,000 lawyers , shows that managing partners earned an average of $ 395,974 in compensation and cash benefits in the firms ' 1988 fiscal years . managing partners who responded to the survey typically spend over half their time supervising their firms ' day-to-day operations and just a little more than a third of their time practicing law . partners in the survey who devote most of their time to practicing law earned an average of about $ 217,000 .