comments by federal reserve board chairman alan greenspan lent some support to the dollar , but the u.s. unit ended yesterday lower against most major currencies . foreign-exchange dealers noted that the impact of the chairman 's remarks was slight and warned that the currency remains sensitive to developments on wall street . traders said that mr. greenspan , whose statements are ordinarily cautious , was especially careful to avoid any jarring proclamations , with fears about equities still unnerving financial markets . testifying before a panel of the house banking committee , mr. greenspan said 0 the short-term value of the dollar on foreign-exchange markets is n't the primary policy focus of the central bank . `` our essential focus is on domestic policy , '' mr. greenspan said , referring to the goals of price stability and a stable economy . in perhaps his most telling remark , mr. greenspan termed the current u.s. inflation rate of around 4.5 % as `` much too high 0 to be ignored . '' he added , however , that inflation could be brought down `` close to zero '' without throwing the economy into a recession . analysts viewed the chairman 's comments as an indication that the central bank is disinclined to ease monetary policy further in the near future . the dollar climbed immediately higher on news of mr. greenspan 's testimony , settling lower in later trade as dealers squared positions ahead of today 's preliminary report on third-quarter u.s. gross national product . in late new york trading yesterday , the dollar was quoted at 1.8353 marks , down from 1.8355 marks tuesday , and at 141.52 yen , up from 141.45 yen late tuesday . sterling was quoted at $ 1.6145 , up from $ 1.6055 late tuesday . in tokyo thursday , the u.s. currency opened for trading at 141.60 yen , up from wednesday 's tokyo close of 141.55 yen . many traders forecast a continuation of the market 's recent bearish trend and predict 0 the u.s. currency will remain stuck in its relatively narrow ranges in the near term and then shift lower . but according to doug madison , a corporate trader with bank of america in los angeles , a large number of short positions must first be corrected , spurring a temporary upswing , before the unit can turn lower . he predicts a downward move in dollar-mark trade and a less dramatic slip in dollar-yen , noting that there continues to be a large pool of japanese investor interest in u.s. securities , which could provide a solid base for the dollar at around 140 yen . market participants hope 0 today 's gnp report will offer more substantial evidence on u.s. economic growth , although analysts are quick to point out that the figures may overstate the economy 's vigor . `` the ` r ' word is looming again , '' says one dealer , referring to persistent concern among some market analysts that the u.s. economy is heading toward a major slowdown if not a recession . some dealers note that while the third-quarter figures may appear relatively bullish -- the market consensus calls for a 2.5 % annual growth rate , unchanged from the second-quarter rate -- it would take a significantly stronger figure to alter market perceptions that the economy is softening . some analysts reckon that the next quarter 's figures will present a more accurate picture of the u.s. economy , showing a marked slowdown in a number of sectors , including housing starts and equities . on the commodity exchange in new york , gold for current delivery settled at $ 369.10 an ounce , down $ 1.10 . estimated volume was a light 1.7 million ounces . in early trading in hong kong thursday , gold was quoted at $ 368.24 an ounce .