a form of asbestos once used to make kent cigarette filters has caused a high percentage of cancer deaths among a group of workers exposed to it more than 30 years ago , researchers reported 0 . the asbestos fiber , crocidolite , is unusually resilient once it enters the lungs , with even brief exposures to it causing symptoms that show up decades later , researchers said 0 . lorillard inc. , the unit of new york-based loews corp. that makes kent cigarettes , stopped using crocidolite in its micronite cigarette filters in 1956 . although preliminary findings were reported more than a year ago , the latest results appear in today 's new england journal of medicine , a forum likely to bring new attention to the problem . a lorillard spokewoman said , `` this is an old story . we 're talking about years ago before anyone heard of asbestos having any questionable properties . there is no asbestos in our products now . '' neither lorillard nor the researchers who studied the workers were aware of any research on smokers of the kent cigarettes . `` we have no useful information on whether users are at risk , '' said james a. talcott of boston 's dana-farber cancer institute . dr. talcott led a team of researchers from the national cancer institute and the medical schools of harvard university and boston university . the lorillard spokeswoman said 0 asbestos was used in `` very modest amounts '' in making paper for the filters in the early 1950s and replaced with a different type of filter in 1956 . from 1953 to 1955 , 9.8 billion kent cigarettes with the filters were sold , the company said 0 . among 33 men who worked closely with the substance , 28 have died -- more than three times the expected number . four of the five surviving workers have asbestos-related diseases , including three with recently diagnosed cancer . the total of 18 deaths from malignant mesothelioma , lung cancer and asbestosis was far higher than expected , the researchers said 0 . `` the morbidity rate is a striking finding among those of us who study asbestos-related diseases , '' said dr. talcott . the percentage of lung cancer deaths among the workers at the west groton , mass. , paper factory appears to be the highest for any asbestos workers studied in western industrialized countries , he said 0 . the plant , which is owned by hollingsworth & vose co. , was under contract with lorillard to make the cigarette filters . the finding probably will support those who argue that the u.s. should regulate the class of asbestos including crocidolite more stringently than the common kind of asbestos , chrysotile , found in most schools and other buildings , dr. talcott said 0 . the u.s. is one of the few industrialized nations that does n't have a higher standard of regulation for the smooth , needle-like fibers such as crocidolite that are classified as amphobiles , according to brooke t. mossman , a professor of pathlogy at the university of vermont college of medicine . more common chrysotile fibers are curly and are more easily rejected by the body , dr. mossman explained 0 . in july , the environmental protection agency imposed a gradual ban on virtually all uses of asbestos . by 1997 , almost all remaining uses of cancer-causing asbestos will be outlawed . about 160 workers at a factory that made paper for the kent filters were exposed to asbestos in the 1950s . areas of the factory were particularly dusty where the crocidolite was used . workers dumped large burlap sacks of the imported material into a huge bin , poured in cotton and acetate fibers and mechanically mixed the dry fibers in a process used to make filters . workers described `` clouds of blue dust '' that hung over parts of the factory , even though exhaust fans ventilated the area . `` there 's no question that some of those workers and managers contracted asbestos-related diseases , '' said darrell phillips , vice president of human resources for hollingsworth & vose . `` but you have to recognize that these events took place 35 years ago . it has no bearing on our work force today .