-lrb- during its centennial year , the wall street journal will report events of the past century that stand as milestones of american business history . -rrb- luther burbank cross-bred plants to produce the billion-dollar idaho potato . bioengineers set out to duplicate that feat -- scientifically and commercially -- with new life forms . in 1953 , james watson and his colleagues unlocked the double helix of dna -lrb- deoxyribonucleic acid -rrb- , the genetic key to heredity . twenty years later , two california academics , stanley cohen and herbert boyer , made `` recombinant '' dna , transplanting a toad 's gene into bacteria , which then reproduced toad genes . when boyer met robert swanson , an m.i.t.-trained chemist-turned-entrepreneur in 1976 , they saw dollar signs . with $ 500 apiece and an injection of outside capital , they formed genentech inc . commercial gene-splicing was born . genentech 's first product , a brain protein called somatostatin , proved its technology . the next 0 to be cloned , human insulin , had market potential and genentech licensed it to eli lilly , which produced 80 % of the insulin used by 1.5 million u.s. diabetics . their laboratory credentials established , boyer and swanson headed for wall street in 1980 . at the time , genentech had only one profitable year behind it -lrb- a modest $ 116,000 on revenue of $ 2.6 million in 1979 -rrb- and no product of its own on the market . nonetheless , the $ 36 million issue 0 they floated in 1980 opened at $ 35 and leaped to $ 89 within 20 minutes . the trip from the test tube was not without snags . boyer and cohen , for instance , both still university researchers , had to be talked into applying for a patent on their gene-splicing technique -- and then the patent office refused to grant it . that judgment , in turn , was reversed by the u.s. supreme court , leaving cohen and boyer holding the first patents for making recombinant dna -lrb- now assigned to their schools -rrb- . gene-splicing now is an integral part of the drug business . genentech 's 1988 sales were $ 335 million , both from licensing and its own products .