solo woodwind players have to be creative if they want to work a lot , because their repertoire and audience appeal are limited . the oboist heinz holliger has taken a hard line about the problem : he commissions and splendidly interprets fearsome contemporary scores and does some conducting , so he does n't have to play the same mozart and strauss concertos over and over again . richard stoltzman has taken a gentler , more audience-friendly approach . years ago , he collaborated with the new music gurus peter serkin and fred sherry in the very countercultural chamber group tashi , which won audiences over to dreaded contemporary scores like messiaen 's `` quartet for the end of time . '' today , the pixie-like clarinetist has mostly dropped the missionary work -lrb- though a touch of the old tashi still survives -rrb- and now goes on the road with piano , bass , a slide show , and a repertoire that ranges from light classical to light jazz to light pop , with a few notable exceptions . just the thing for the vivaldi-at-brunch set , the yuppie audience that has embraced new age as its very own easy listening . but you ca n't dismiss mr. stoltzman 's music or his motives as merely commercial and lightweight . he believes in what he plays , and he plays superbly . his recent appearance at the metropolitan museum , dubbed `` a musical odyssey , '' was a case in point . it felt more like a party , or a highly polished jam session with a few friends , than a classical concert . clad in his trademark black velvet suit , the soft-spoken clarinetist announced that his new album , `` inner voices , '' had just been released , that his family was in the front row , and that it was his mother 's birthday , so he was going to play her favorite tune from the record . he launched into saint-saens 's `` the swan '' from `` carnival of the animals , '' a favorite encore piece for cellists , with lovely , glossy tone and no bite . then , as if to show that he could play fast as well , he offered the second movement from saint-saens 's sonata for clarinet , a whimsical , puckish tidbit that reflected the flip side of the stoltzman personality . and so it went through the first half : an ingeniously chosen potpourri of pieces , none longer than five minutes , none that would disturb or challenge a listener . mr. stoltzman introduced his colleagues : bill douglas , pianist\/bassoonist\/composer and an old buddy from yale , and jazz bassist eddie gomez . an improvisational section was built around pieces by mr. douglas , beginning with `` golden rain , '' a lilting , laid-back lead in to the uptempo `` sky , '' which gave mr. stoltzman the opportunity to wail in a high register and show off his fleet fingers . bach 's `` air '' followed . mr. stoltzman tied the composer in by proclaiming him `` the great improviser of the 18th century , '' and then built on the image by joining with mr. douglas in some bach two-part inventions , cleverly arranged for clarinet and bassoon by mr. douglas . keeping the mood light , the two then chanted and chortled their way through some murderous polyrhythms , devised by mr. douglas as an alternative to hindemith 's dry theory-teaching techniques , and then , with mr. gomez , soared and improvised on the composer 's tight `` bebop etudes . '' the end of the first half , however , brought what the standing-room-only crowd seemed to be waiting for : the pop singer judy collins , who appears on `` inner voices . '' glamorous and pure-voiced as ever , ms. collins sang joni mitchell 's `` for free '' -- about an encounter with a street-corner clarinetist , to which mr. stoltzman contributed a clarinet obligatto -- and mr. douglas 's lush setting of a gaelic blessing , `` deep peace . '' `` deep peace '' also featured a slide show of lovely but predictable images of clouds , beaches , deserts , sunsets , etc . it was all too mellow 0 to be believed , but they probably would have gotten away with it , had they not felt compelled to add ms. collins 's signature tune , `` amazing grace , '' and ask for audience participation . that went over the permissible line for warm and fuzzy feelings . was this why some of the audience departed before or during the second half ? or was it because ms. collins had gone ? either way it was a pity , because mr. stolzman offered the most substantial music of the evening just after intermission : steve reich 's `` new york counterpoint , '' one of a series of reich works that juxtapose a live performer with recorded tracks of his or her own playing . -lrb- mr. reich 's new `` different trains '' for string quartet uses the technique magisterially . -rrb- mr. stoltzman must have worried that his audience might not be able to take it : he warned us in advance that `` new york counterpoint '' lasts 11 1\/2 minutes . he also unfortunately illustrated this intricate , jazzy tapestry with mr. pearson 's images , this time of geometric or repeating objects , in a kitschy mirroring of the musical structure that was thoroughly distracting from mr. reich 's piece and mr. stoltzman 's elegant execution of it . the rest of the concert was more straight jazz and mellow sounds written by charlie parker , ornette coleman , bill douglas and eddie gomez , with pictures for the douglas pieces . it was enjoyable to hear accomplished jazz without having to sit in a smoke-filled club , but like the first half , much of it was easy 0 to take and ultimately forgettable . is this the future of chamber music ? managers and presenters insist that chamber music concerts are a hard sell , but can audiences really enjoy them only if the music is purged of threatening elements , served up in bite-sized morsels and accompanied by visuals ? what 's next ? slides 0 to illustrate shostakovich quartets ? it was not an unpleasant evening , certainly , thanks to the high level of performance , the compositional talents of mr. douglas , and the obvious sincerity with which mr. stoltzman chooses his selections . but it was neither deep nor lasting : light entertainment that was no substitute for an evening of brahms . ms. waleson is a free-lance writer based in new york .