copper futures prices failed to extend friday 's rally . declines came because of concern that demand for copper may slow down . the december contract was down three cents a pound , settling at $ 1.1280 , which was just above the day 's low of $ 1.1270 . futures prices fell during three of five sessions last week , and the losses , individually and cumulatively , were greater than the advances . two of the major factors buoying prices , the prolonged strikes at the highland valley mine in canada and the cananea mine in mexico , were finally resolved . also , the premiums paid by the u.s. government on a purchase of copper for the u.s. mint were lower than expected , and acted as a price depressant , analysts said 0 . the mint purchases were at premiums about 4 1\/2 cents a pound above the respective prices for the copper . at the time merchants were asking for premiums of about five cents a pound . all this has led to prolonged selling in futures , mostly on the part of computer-guided funds . prices fell through levels regarded as important support areas , which added to the selling . the reluctance of traders to buy contracts indicates that they have begun focusing on demand rather than supply . at least one analyst noted that as production improves , the concern among traders is whether the prospective increased supply will find buyers because of uncertainty over national economies . `` demand from japan is expected to continue strong , but not from other areas of the world into the first quarter of next year , '' he said . japan normally depends heavily on the highland valley and cananea mines as well as the bougainville mine in papua new guinea . recently , japan has been buying copper elsewhere . but as highland valley and cananea begin operating , they are expected to resume their roles as japan 's suppliers . according to fred demler , metals economist for drexel burnham lambert , new york , `` highland valley has already started operating and cananea is expected to do so soon . '' the bougainville mine is generally expected to remain closed until at least the end of the year . it has n't been operating since may 15 because of attacks by native landowners . a recent attempt to resume operations was cut short quickly by these attacks . however , traders disregarded a potential production disruption in chile and a continued drop in inventories . workers at two chilean mines , los bronces and el soldado , which belong to the exxon-owned minera disputado group , will vote thursday on whether to strike after a two-year labor pact ends today . the mines produced a total of 110,000 tons of copper in 1988 . according to drexel 's mr. demler , the potential strike is expected to be resolved quickly , which may be one reason why the situation did n't affect prices much . another analyst said that , if there was any concern , it was that a strike could encourage other walkouts in chile . london metal exchange copper inventories fell 550 tons last week to 83,950 tons , a smaller-than-expected decline . but that development also had little effect on traders ' sentiment . mr. demler said that stocks of copper in u.s. producers ' hands at the end of september were down 16,000 metric tons from august to 30,000 tons . outside the u.s. , he said 0 , producer stocks at the end of august were 273,000 tons , down 3,000 tons from the end of july . consumer stocks of copper in the u.s. fell to 44,000 tons at the end of september from 54,000 tons a month earlier , and stocks of copper held by consumers and merchants outside of the u.s. at the end of july stood at 123,000 tons , down from 125,000 tons in june . the high point of foreigners ' copper stocks this year was 136,000 tons at the end of april , according to mr. demler . in other commodity markets yesterday : grains and soybeans : the prices of most corn , soybean and wheat futures contracts dropped slightly as farmers in the midwest continued to rebuild stockpiles that were depleted by the 1988 drought . buying by the soviets has helped to prop up corn prices in recent weeks , but a lack of any new purchases kept prices in the doldrums . coffee : futures prices rose slightly in a market filled with rumors that a new international coffee agreement might still be achieved . the december contract ended with a gain of 1.29 cents a pound at 74.35 cents . according to one analyst , prices opened higher because of reports over the weekend that brazil and colombia , at the pan-american summit meeting in costa rica , had agreed to a reduction in their coffee export quotas for the sake of creating a new agreement . the reports , attributed to the colombian minister of economic development , said 0 brazil would give up 500,000 bags of its quota and colombia 200,000 bags , the analyst said 0 . these reports were later denied by a high brazilian official , who said 0 brazil was n't involved in any coffee discussions on quotas , the analyst said 0 . the colombian minister was said to have referred to a letter that he said 0 president bush sent to colombian president virgilio barco , and in which president bush said 0 it was possible to overcome obstacles to a new agreement . the minister was also quoted as saying that a new pact could be achieved during the first half of next year , according to the analyst . precious metals : futures prices showed modest changes in light trading volume . december delivery gold eased 40 cents an ounce to $ 380.80 . december silver was off 3.7 cents an ounce at $ 5.2830 . january platinum rose 90 cents an ounce at $ 500.20 . the market turned quiet after rising sharply late last week , according to one analyst . last week 's uncertainty in the stock market and a weaker dollar triggered a flight to safety , he said 0 , but yesterday the market lacked such stimuli . there was some profit-taking because prices for all the precious metals had risen to levels at which there was resistance to further advance , he said 0 . the dollar was also slightly firmer and prompted some selling , as well , according to the analyst .