president bush insists 0 it would be a great tool for curbing the budget deficit and slicing the lard out of government programs . he wants it now . not so fast , says rep. mickey edwards of oklahoma , a fellow republican . `` i consider it one of the stupidest ideas of the 20th century , '' he says . it 's the line-item veto , a procedure that would allow the president to kill individual items in a big spending bill passed by congress without vetoing the entire bill . whatever one thinks of the idea , it 's far more than the budgetary gimmick 0 it may seem at first glance . rather , it 's a device that could send shock waves through the president 's entire relationship with democrats and republicans alike in congress , fundamentally enhance the power of the presidency and transform the way 0 the government does its business . president bush badly wants a line-item veto and has long called for a law giving it to the president . now the white house is declaring that he might not rely on congress -- which has n't shown any willingness to surrender such authority -- to pass the line-item veto law 0 he seeks . white house spokesmen last week said 0 mr. bush is considering simply declaring that the constitution gives him the power , exercising a line-item veto and inviting a court challenge 0 to decide whether he has the right . although that may sound like an arcane maneuver of little interest outside washington , it would set off a political earthquake . `` the ramifications are enormous , '' says rep. don edwards , a california democrat who is a senior member of the house judiciary committee . `` it 's a real face-to-face arm wrestling challenge to congress . '' white house aides know 0 it 's a step that ca n't be taken lightly -- and for that reason , the president may back down from launching a test case this year . some senior advisers argue that with further fights over a capital-gains tax cut and a budget-reduction bill looming , mr. bush already has enough pending confrontations with congress . they prefer to put off the line-item veto until at least next year . still , mr. bush and some other aides are strongly drawn to the idea of trying out a line-item veto . the issue arose last week when vice president dan quayle told an audience in chicago that mr. bush was looking for a test case . white house press secretary marlin fitzwater confirmed that mr. bush was interested in the idea , but cautioned that there was n't a firm decision to try it . mr. bush , former president reagan and a host of conservative activists have been arguing that a line-item veto would go a long way in restoring discipline to the budget process . they maintain that a president needs the ability to surgically remove pork-barrel spending projects that are attached to big omnibus spending bills . those bills ca n't easily be vetoed in their entirety because they often are needed to keep the government operating . conservatives note that 43 governors have the line-item veto 0 to use on state budgets . more provocatively , some conservative legal theorists have begun arguing that mr. bush does n't need to wait for a law giving him the veto because the power already is implicit in the constitution . they base their argument on a clause buried in article i , section 7 , of the constitution that states : `` every order , resolution , or vote to which the concurrence of the senate and house of representatives may be necessary -lrb- except on a question of adjournment -rrb- shall be presented to the president of the united states ; and before the same shall take effect , shall be approved by him or ... disapproved by him ... . '' this clause , they argue 0 , is designed to go beyond an earlier clause specifying that the president can veto a `` bill , '' and is broad enough to allow him to strike out items and riders within bills . senate minority leader robert dole -lrb- r. , kan. -rrb- , for one , accepts this argument and earlier this year publicly urged mr. bush `` to use the line-item veto and allow the courts to decide whether or not it is constitutional . '' there 's little doubt that such a move would be immediately challenged in court -- and that it would quickly make its way to the supreme court to be ultimately resolved . `` it 's a major issue , and they would n't want to leave it at a lower level , '' says stephen glazier , a new york attorney whose writings have been instrumental in pushing the idea that a president already has a line-item veto . rep. edwards , the california democrat , is one who pledges that he would immediately challenge mr. bush in the courts , arguing 0 a line-item veto would expand a president 's powers far beyond anything 0 the framers of the constitution had in mind . `` it puts this president in the legislative business , '' he declares . `` that 's not what our fathers had in mind . '' in addition to giving a president powers to rewrite spending bills meant to be written in congress , rep. edwards argues 0 , a line-item veto would allow the chief executive to blackmail lawmakers . he notes that , as a lawmaker from the san francisco area , he fights each year to preserve federal funds for the bay area rapid transit system . if a president had a line-item veto and wanted to force him to support a controversial foreign-policy initiative , rep. edwards says 0 , the president could call and declare that he would single-handedly kill the bart funds unless the congressman `` shapes up '' on the foreign-policy issue . proponents maintain that a president would choose to use a line-item veto more judiciously than that . but there may be another problem with the device : despite all the political angst 0 it would cause , it might n't be effective in cutting the deficit . big chunks of the government budget , like the entitlement programs of social security and medicare , would n't be affected . governors have found that they have to use the device sparingly to maintain political comity . and it is n't even clear that some pork-barrel projects can be hit with a line-item veto because they tend to be listed in informal conference reports accompanying spending bills rather than in the official bills themselves . still , proponents contend that the veto would have what mr. glazier calls an important `` chilling effect '' on all manner of appropriations bills . lawmakers , they say 0 , would avoid putting many spending projects into legislation in the first place for fear of the embarrassment of having them singled out for a line-item veto later . whatever the outcome of a test case , president bush would have to move cautiously becase the very attempt would `` antagonize not just democrats but republicans , '' says louis fisher , a scholar at the congressional research service who specializes in executive-legislative relations . republicans have as much interest as democrats in `` the way 0 the system works , '' he notes 0 . indeed , although a majority of republican lawmakers favor a line-item veto , some , ranging from liberal oregon sen. mark hatfield to conservative rep. edwards are opposed . rep. edwards voices the traditional conservative view that it 's a mistake to put too much power in the hands of a single person . conservatives pushing for a line-item veto now , he notes 0 , may regret it later : `` sometime , you 're going to have a democratic president again '' who 'll use his expanded powers against those very same conservatives . `` every order , resolution , or vote to which the concurrence of the senate and house of representatives may be necessary -lrb- except on a question of adjournment -rrb- shall be presented to the president of the united states ; and before the same shall take effect , shall be approved by him , or being disapproved by him , shall be repassed by two-thirds of the senate and house of representatives , according to the rules and limitations prescribed in the case of a bill . ''