chicago - options traders were among the big victims of friday 's plunging stock market , including one small firm that required an emergency $ 50 million bailout . while monday 's rebounding markets helped other investors recoup losses , many options customers and professional traders in stock-index options and the options on takeover stocks were left with multimillion-dollar losses , traders here and in new york said 0 . options traders were hurt worse than others on friday because of the highly volatile nature of options , which often rise or fall in value several times the amount of the price change in the individual stock or index of stocks on which they are based . thus , options traders friday were stuck with losses that also were several times larger than those suffered by many stock traders in new york . jeffrey miller of miller tabak hirsch & co. said that given the high degree of leverage in the options market , it is `` very easy for these guys to get wiped out . that may just be the nature of these highly leveraged little creatures . '' an options contract gives the holder the right to buy -lrb- call -rrb- or sell -lrb- put -rrb- a specific amount of stock , or in this case the value of a stock index , based on a predetermined price within a given time period . options traders who , in return for a small fee , or premium , had previously sold put options on stocks or stock indexes were forced on friday to buy those contracts back at the previously agreed prices , which were substantially above those in the market as it was falling . they then had no choice in many cases but to sell the contracts at prevailing prices -- in most cases at a substantial loss . the latest round of losses is likely to be a serious blow to the chicago board options exchange , which has never fully recovered from the aftershock of black monday , when investors fled the market because of huge losses . making matters worse was the fact that late friday afternoon the cboe halted stock-index options trading in step with the chicago mercantile exchange 's halt in stock-index futures . but while the merc reopened a half hour later , the cboe remained closed , leaving many options traders unable to make trades that might have reduced the losses . cboe chairman alger `` duke '' chapman , said that , unlike the futures market , the options exchange has to open in a rotation that allows each different options series to trade . exchange officials reasoned that they would n't have been able to make such a rotation with the time remaining friday afternoon , and with the stock-index futures on the verge of closing for a second and final time , the cboe reasoned that its best course was to remain closed . the damage was so bad at fossett corp. , an options trading firm here , that it was forced to transfer its accounts to first options of chicago , a unit of continental bank corp. , as a result of options trading losses . fosset so far is the only member of a financial exchange 0 to be forced to be taken over by another firm as a result of friday 's rout . fossett still had several million dollars in capital left after friday 's close of trading , but not enough that regulators , worried about another potential market plunge yesterday , would let it reopen for trading , options exchange officials said 0 . thus , in an unprecedented arrangement underscoring the seriousness of the transfer , the cboe , the american stock exchange and the options clearing corp. , as well as the firm 's owner , stephen fossett , put up a total of $ 50 million to guarantee the customer positions being transferred to the bank holding company subsidiary in case the market plunged again yesterday . s. waite rawls iii , vice chairman of continental bank , first options ' parent company , said 0 the firm took on about 160 accounts formerly held by fossett , almost all of them belonging to professional floor traders . `` steve and his firm were still worth a lot of money , '' mr. rawls said . `` a package of credit support was put together -- including the assets of steve and his firm . '' the bailout was cobbled together over the weekend , with officials from the federal reserve board , securities and exchange commission , comptroller of the currency and treasury as well as the options exchanges . `` it was great to have the luxury of time , '' mr. rawls said . at one point , an options industry official had to talk the federal reserve bank of chicago 's night watchman into giving him the home phone number of silas keene , chicago fed president . first options did n't have to put any money into the bailout . yesterday 's rally in the stock , futures and options markets led cboe and amex officials to conclude that the $ 50 million in guarantees almost certainly wo n't need to be tapped by first options . the fossett firm had some losses and liquidity problems during the october 1987 crash as well , mr. rawls said 0 . a federal official said that continental bank worked with securities and banking regulators over the weekend to fashion the fossett bailout , but that conditions were n't dictated by those agencies . `` it was their business decision , '' the official said . officials at options clearing corp. , which processes all options trades for u.s. exchanges , said that the $ 50 million guarantee was unprecedented , but was necessary to help insure the integrity of the options markets . `` it was an extraordinary situation that needed extraordinary steps , '' said paul stevens , occ president and chief operating officer . mr. stevens declined to give the specific contributions to the $ 50 million guarantee from each participant . but cboe and amex officials said that options clearing corp. contributed $ 20 million to the guarantee , the cboe put up $ 8 million , the amex added $ 4 million and $ 18 million came from mr. fossett 's own assets . mr. fossett could n't be reached to comment .