national geographic , the sixth-largest u.s. magazine , is attracting more readers than ever and offers the glossy , high-toned pages that upscale advertisers love . so why did advertising pages plunge by almost 10 % and ad revenue by 7.2 % in the first half ? to hear advertisers tell it , the magazine just has n't kept up with the times . despite renewed interest by the public in such topics as the environment and the third world , it has n't been able to shake its reputation as a magazine 0 boys like to flip through in search of topless tribe women . worse , it lagged behind competitors in offering now-standard gimmicks , from regional editions to discounts for frequent advertisers . but now , the magazine is attempting to fight back , with an ambitious plan including a revamped sales strategy and a surprisingly aggressive ad campaign . advertisers do n't think of the magazine first , says 0 joan mccraw , who joined in april as national advertising director . `` what we want to do is take a more aggressive stance . people did n't believe 0 we were in tune with the marketplace , and in many ways we were n't . '' the 101-year-old magazine has never had to woo advertisers with quite so much fervor before . it largely rested on its hard-to-fault demographics : 10.8 million subscribers in the first half , up from 10.5 million a year ago ; an average age of 42 for readers -- at the height of their consuming years ; loyalty to the tune of an 85 % average subscription renewal rate . the magazine had its best year yet in 1988 , when it celebrated its centennial and racked up a 17 % gain in ad pages , to 283 . but this year , when the hullabaloo surrounding its centennial died , so too did some advertiser interest . the reason , ad executives say 0 , is that the entire magazine business has been soft -- and national geographic has some quirks that make it especially unattractive during a soft market . perhaps the biggest of those factors is its high ad prices -- $ 130,000 for a four-color page , vs. $ 47,000 for the smithsonian , a comparable publication with a far smaller circulation . when ad dollars are tight , the high page cost is a major deterrent for advertisers , who generally want to appear regularly in a publication or not at all . even though national geographic offers far more readers than does a magazine like smithsonian , `` the page costs you an arm and a leg to develop any frequency , '' says 0 harry glass , new york media manager for bozell inc . to combat that problem , national geographic , like other magazines , began offering regional editions allowing advertisers to appear in only a portion of its magazines -- for example , ads can run only in the magazines sent to subscribers in the largest 25 markets . but the magazine was slower than its competitors to come up with its regional editions , and until last year offered fewer of them than did competitors . time magazine , for example , has more than 100 separate editions going to different regions , top management , and other groups . another sticking point for advertisers was national geographic 's tradition of lumping its ads together , usually at the beginning or end of the magazine , rather than spreading ads out among its articles , as most magazines do . and national geographic 's smaller-than-average size means extra production costs for advertisers . but ms. mccraw says 0 the magazine is fighting back . it now offers 30 regional editions , it very recently began running ads adjacent to articles , and it has been beefing up its sales force . and it just launched a promotional campaign 0 to tell chief executives , marketing directors , and media executives just that . the centerpiece of the promotion is its new ad campaign , into which the magazine will pour about $ 500,000 , mostly in the next few weeks . the campaign , created by omnicom group 's ddb needham agency , takes advantage of the eye-catching photography that national geographic is known for . in one ad , a photo of the interior of the sainte-chapelle in paris is paired with the headline , `` the only book more respected than ours does n't accept advertising . '' another ad pictures a tree ant , magnified 80 times , with the headline , `` for impact far beyond your size consider our regional editions . '' ms. mccraw says 0 she wants the campaign to help attract advertisers in 10 categories , including corporate , financial services , consumer electronics , insurance and food . her goal : to top 300 ad pages in 1990 , up from about 274 this year . whether she can meet that ambitious goal is still far from certain . `` the ad campaign is meant to contemporize the thought of national geographic , '' she says . `` we want it to be a '90s kind of image . '' wcrs plans ad-unit sale wcrs group hopes to announce , perhaps today , an agreement to sell the majority of its ad unit to paris-based eurocom , a european ad executive said 0 . wcrs has been in discussions with eurocom for several months . however , when negotiations bogged down recently , wcrs 's chief executive , peter scott , met in paris with another french firm , boulet dru dupuy petit , or bddp . according to the executive , bddp 's involvement prompted renewed vigor in the wcrs-eurocom talks and the two agencies were hoping to hammer out details by today . executives of the two agencies could n't be reached last night . ad notes ... . new account : procter & gamble co. , cincinnati , awarded the ad accounts for its line of professional crisco vegetable shortening and oil products to northlich , stolley , lawarre , cincinnati . billings were n't disclosed . professional crisco products are specially made for the foodservice industry . who 's news : stephen novick , 49 , was named executive vice president , deputy creative director at grey advertising , new york . he was executive vice president , director of broadcast production .