pick a country , any country . it 's the latest investment craze sweeping wall street : a rash of new closed-end country funds , those publicly traded portfolios that invest in stocks of a single foreign country . no fewer than 24 country funds have been launched or registered with regulators this year , triple the level of all of 1988 , according to charles e. simon & co. , a washington-based research firm . the turf recently has ranged from chile to austria to portugal . next week , the philippine fund 's launch will be capped by a visit by philippine president corazon aquino -- the first time 0 a head of state has kicked off an issue at the big board here . the next province ? `` anything 's possible -- how about the new guinea fund ? '' quips george foot , a managing partner at newgate management associates of northampton , mass . the recent explosion of country funds mirrors the `` closed-end fund mania '' of the 1920s , mr. foot says 0 , when narrowly focused funds grew wildly popular . they fell into oblivion after the 1929 crash . unlike traditional open-end mutual funds , most of these one-country portfolios are the `` closed-end '' type , issuing a fixed number of shares that trade publicly . the surge brings to nearly 50 the number of country funds that are or soon will be listed in new york or london . these funds now account for several billions of dollars in assets . `` people are looking to stake their claims '' now before the number of available nations runs out , says michael porter , an analyst at smith barney , harris upham & co. , new york . behind all the hoopla is some heavy-duty competition . as individual investors have turned away from the stock market over the years , securities firms have scrambled to find new products that brokers find easy 0 to sell . and the firms are stretching their nets far and wide to do it . financial planners often urge investors to diversify and to hold a smattering of international securities . and many emerging markets have outpaced more mature markets , such as the u.s. and japan . country funds offer an easy way 0 to get a taste of foreign stocks without the hard research of seeking out individual companies . but it does n't take much to get burned . political and currency gyrations can whipsaw the funds . another concern : the funds ' share prices tend to swing more than the broader market . when the stock market dropped nearly 7 % oct. 13 , for instance , the mexico fund plunged about 18 % and the spain fund fell 16 % . and most country funds were clobbered more than most stocks after the 1987 crash . what 's so wild about the funds ' frenzy right now is that many are trading at historically fat premiums to the value of their underlying portfolios . after trading at an average discount of more than 20 % in late 1987 and part of last year , country funds currently trade at an average premium of 6 % . the reason : share prices of many of these funds this year have climbed much more sharply than the foreign stocks 0 they hold . it 's probably worth paying a premium for funds that invest in markets that are partially closed to foreign investors , such as south korea , some specialists say 0 . but some european funds recently have skyrocketed ; spain fund has surged to a startling 120 % premium . it has been targeted by japanese investors as a good long-term play tied to 1992 's european economic integration . and several new funds that are n't even fully invested yet have jumped to trade at big premiums . `` i 'm very alarmed to see these rich valuations , '' says smith barney 's mr. porter . the newly fattened premiums reflect the increasingly global marketing of some country funds , mr. porter suggests 0 . unlike many u.s. investors , those in asia or europe seeking foreign-stock exposure may be less resistant to paying higher prices for country funds . `` there may be an international viewpoint cast on the funds listed here , '' mr. porter says . nonetheless , plenty of u.s. analysts and money managers are aghast at the lofty trading levels of some country funds . they argue that u.s. investors often can buy american depositary receipts on the big stocks in many funds ; these so-called adrs represent shares of foreign companies traded in the u.s. . that way investors can essentially buy the funds without paying the premium . for people who insist on jumping in now to buy the funds , newgate 's mr. foot says : `` the only advice 0 i have for these folks is that those who come to the party late had better be ready to leave quickly .