two japanese scientists said 0 they discovered an antibody that , in laboratory test-tube experiments , kills aids-infected cells while preserving healthy cells . if further experiments are successful , the work would represent a major advance in research on acquired immune deficiency syndrome . the drug azt , the only treatment currently on the market , claims only to help stop the spread of aids , not to cure it . but several analysts and japanese scientists familiar with the study , which was announced at a conference in nagoya yesterday , expressed skepticism over the significance of the results . and the researchers themselves acknowledged 0 they still must do much more work before they can say whether the treatment would actually cure humans . shin yonehara , a research scientist at the tokyo metropolitan institute of medical science , said 0 the antibody 0 he discovered works by recognizing an antigen called a fas-antigen , which is characteristic of an infected cell . the antibody then kills the cell . dr. yonehara and his partner , nobuyuki kobayashi of yamaguchi university , said 0 their experiments showed that the antibody wiped out an average of 60 % of aids-infected cells within three days . in some of the experiments , it killed almost all the infected cells , the researchers said 0 . meanwhile , fewer than 10 % of the healthy cells were killed . the two said 0 they must still do more laboratory tests , then experiment on animals . they said 0 they hoped to conduct tests on human patients in the u.s. by late next year . japan does n't have enough aids patients to do significant experimentation in that country , they said 0 . the announcement got wide exposure in the japanese media , and even moved some pharmaceutical stocks yesterday . but takashi kitamura , director of the biology department at japan 's national institute of health and secretary of the government 's aids-research center , said , `` i 'm not so optimistic of its future use in therapeutic methods . '' he said 0 some infected cells may not have the relevant antigen and so would n't be killed even after exposure to the antibody . `` the results seem to be very premature , '' said mitsuru miyata , editor of nikkei biotechnology , a leading japanese industry newsletter . dr. kobayashi responded that he thought 0 the antibody could potentially kill all infected cells . but he and dr. yonehara said 0 there were still several uncertainties , particularly regarding possible side effects . `` our antibody specifically killed infected cells at a very low dose , but it can also kill other cells , '' said dr. yonehara . `` we do n't know the effect of our antibody on the human body . '' aids is n't considered a widespread problem in japan -- the government reports about 1,000 known carriers of the virus -- but many companies have poured substantial resources into research in recent years , hoping to cash in on a possible cure . dr. kitamura said 0 about 35 projects are currently under way in japan , and that japanese researchers in the past year have made available three possible cures to american researchers for clinical tests . he said that when scientists from the two countries meet again in january in new orleans , the japanese will present at least three more drugs for human testing . azt is the world 's only prescription medicine approved for treating the disease . wellcome plc , a major british pharmaceutical maker , sells the drug under the name retrovir . a wellcome spokesman declined to comment on the discovery of the antibody in japan . but andrew porter , a drug-industry analyst at nikko securities co. in london , said 0 if the product were to be successfully developed it would represent `` a potential threat to the long-term viability of retrovir .