health-care companies should get healthier in the third quarter . medical-supply houses are expected to report earnings increases of about 15 % on average for the third quarter , despite sales increases of less than 10 % , analysts say 0 . to offset sluggish sales growth , companies have been cutting staff , mostly through attrition , and slowing the growth in research and development spending . sales growth in the quarter was slowed by mounting pressure from groups of buyers , such as hospitals , to hold down prices . suppliers were also hurt by the stronger u.s. dollar , which makes sales abroad more difficult . in some cases , competition has squeezed margins . becton , dickinson & co. , for example , faces stiff competition from a japanese supplier in the important syringe market . the franklin lakes , n.j. , company is expected to report sales growth of only 5 % to 6 % , but should still maintain earnings growth of 10 % , says 0 jerry e. fuller , an analyst with duff & phelps inc . among the first of the group 0 to post results , abbott laboratories said 0 third-quarter net income jumped 14 % to $ 196 million , or 88 cents a share , from $ 172 million , or 76 cents a share , a year earlier . sales for the company , based in abbott park , ill. , rose 8.3 % to $ 1.31 billion from $ 1.21 billion . baxter international inc. yesterday reported 0 net climbed 20 % in the third period to $ 102 million , or 34 cents a share , from $ 85 million , or 28 cents a share , a year earlier . sales for the deerfield , ill. , company rose 5.8 % to $ 1.81 billion from $ 1.71 billion . but not every company expects to report increased earnings . c.r. bard inc. yesterday said 0 third-quarter net plunged 51 % to $ 9.9 million , or 18 cents a share , from $ 20 million , or 35 cents a share , a year earlier . sales fell 1.2 % to $ 190.1 million from $ 192.5 million . the murray hill , n.j. , company said 0 full-year earnings may be off 33 cents a share because the company removed a catheter from the market . in 1988 , the company earned $ 1.38 a share . the food and drug administration had raised questions about the device 's design . some analysts add that third-party pressures to reduce health costs will continue to bedevil companies ' bottom lines . takeover speculation , which has been buoying stocks of supply houses , may also ease , says 0 peter sidoti , an analyst with drexel burnham lambert inc . `` as that wanes , you 're going to see the stocks probably wane as well , '' he says . hospitals companies , meanwhile , are reporting improved earnings . bolstered by strong performances by its psychiatric hospitals , national medical enterprises inc. , los angeles , reported net income of $ 50 million , or 65 cents a share , for the first quarter ended aug. 31 , up from $ 41 million , or 56 cents a share , a year earlier . humana inc. , louisville , ky. , also reported favorable results , with net income of $ 66.7 million , or 66 cents , in the fourth quarter ended aug. 31 , up from $ 58.2 million , or 59 cents , a year earlier . analysts say 0 the handful of hospital companies that are still publicly traded are benefiting from several trends . most important , hospital admission rates are stabilizing after several years of decline . moreover , companies have sold off many of their smaller , less-profitable hospitals and have completed painful restructurings . humana 's revenues , for example , are being boosted by large increases in enrollments in the company 's health maintenance organizations . says todd richter , an analyst with dean witter reynolds : `` the shakeout in the publicly traded companies is over .