new construction contracting climbed 8 % in september to an annualized $ 274.2 billion , with commercial , industrial and public-works contracts providing most of the increase , according to f.w. dodge group . through the first nine months of the year , the unadjusted total of all new construction was $ 199.6 billion , flat compared with a year earlier . the south was off 2 % after the first nine months , while the north central region was up 3 % . the northeast and west regions were unchanged . a small decline in total construction for the entire year is possible if contracting for housing does n't increase in response to this year 's lower mortgage rates , said 0 george a. christie , vice president and chief economist of dodge , the forecasting division of publisher mcgraw-hill inc . the seasonally adjusted dodge index reached 175 in september , its highest level this year , from 162 in august . the index uses a base of 100 in 1982 . newly contracted residential work edged up 2 % in september to an annualized $ 121.2 billion , largely because multifamily building rebounded from a very weak august . `` at the end of the third quarter , there was still no evidence of renewed home building in response to the midyear decline of mortgage rates , '' mr. christie said . housing has been weak all year and especially so in the past five months . contracting for non-residential buildings rose 10 % in september to an annualized $ 100.8 billion . commercial and industrial construction rose sharply , partly because of three large projects , each expected to cost more than $ 100 million . institutional building , such as hospitals and schools , eased in september following a surge in august . although the third quarter was the best so far this year for non-residential building , weakness early in the year held the nine-month total to $ 69.6 billion , up just 1 % from a year earlier . public-works and utility projects , also known as non-building contracting , grew 18 % to $ 52.2 billion in september , but the nine-month total of $ 36.9 billion was down 3 % from a year earlier . the sept. 30 end of the federal fiscal year may have prodded contractors to get any behind-schedule road and bridge construction under way `` before the clock ran out , '' mr. christie said 0 , referring to threatened 5 % across-the-board budget cuts . a - monthly construction contract values are reported on an annualized , seasonally adjusted basis .