in poland 's rapid shift from socialism to an undefined alternative , environmental issues have become a cutting edge of broader movements to restructure the economy , cut cumbersome bureaucracies , and democratize local politics . initial steps were taken at poland 's first international environmental conference , which i attended last month . the conference , held in lower silesia , was co-sponsored by the environment ministry , the rockefeller brothers fund , and the polish ecological club , and was attended by 50 poles from government and industry , as well as hungarians , czechs , russians , japanese and americans . the conference was entitled `` economic mechanisms for environmental protection , '' a significant departure from east bloc usage , which recognizes only one economic mechanism -- central planning -- 0 to direct industrial behavior . even more remarkably , it focused on emissions trading and similar market approaches 0 to address pollution , notwithstanding poland 's lack of functioning markets . why did east bloc participants unanimously endorse market-based pollution approaches ? the answer lies both in the degraded environment of these countries and the perceived causes of that degradation . like other east bloc countries , poland possesses environmental laws more honored in their breach than in their observance . according to a detailed report by zbigniew bochniarz of the university of minnesota 's hubert humphrey institute , 27 areas containing a third of poland 's population are regarded as `` ecological hazards '' due to multiple violations of standards . norms are consistently exceeded at 60 % of nitrogen oxide monitoring sites and 80 % of those for dust and soot emissions . four-fifths of poland 's soils have become highly acidified ; 70 % of its southern forests are projected to die by century 's end . between 1965 and 1985 , polish waters fit for human consumption dropped from 33 % to 6 % of all surface waters , while those unfit even for industry use nearly doubled . poland produces about 20 times more soot and five times more sulfur dioxide and solid waste per unit of gross national product than does western europe . its mortality rate for males over 35 is about 50 % higher than west germany 's , and 50 % higher in hazard areas than the national average . since 1978 , average annual growth rates for most pollutants have outstripped the growth of gnp . conference participants saw these effects as flowing directly from -lrb- a -rrb- marxist devaluation of environmental resources , which are not produced by labor ; -lrb- b -rrb- planned economies ' inability to control pollution where enterprises are state-owned and penalties are paid by the government ; and -lrb- c -rrb- the continuing stalinist emphasis on heavy industry for economic development , producing a far heavier and more wasteful use of energy and natural resources than in the west . they repeatedly noted that environmental progress could not be secured without true ownership , genuine competition based on market factors , and the risk of bankruptcy if a business makes the wrong decisions . the solutions 0 they formally proposed included lead\/sulfur taxes , conservation and recycling incentives , reforestation offsets , transferable pollution permits , an ecological bank 0 to finance pollution-reduction credits , and debt-for-environment swaps . but their most fundamental recommendation was to separate industry from the state , making it fully accountable for pollution control . a revolution takes more than conference manifestos . indeed , skepticism was amply captured by a joke told by poles at the conference : `` the world must be coming to an end . the russians are talking peace . the palestinians are talking elections . and the poles are engaged in commerce . '' but the implications of such a shift to market approaches go well beyond the fact that poland is already working on nationwide emissions trades 0 to reduce smelter pollution , or that the soviets plan to introduce marketable pollution permits in some republics next year . those implications include : -- privatization . faced with a $ 40 billion foreign debt and skyrocketing inflation , poland must privatize industry and eliminate subsidies to stabilize its currency and qualify for international assistance . market-based pollution control may consume some capital that would otherwise purchase state industries . but it could also accelerate `` marketization '' by reinforcing industrial accountability , breaking up state monopolies , giving managers a stake in solutions , and ensuring that modernization is not reversible for failure to address environmental effects . -- least-cost solutions . as conferees noted , scarce capital means 0 the costs of control must be minimized through a broad menu of compliance choices for individual firms . that means simple , clear rules that secure the first large blocks of reduction , deferring more complex issues such as risk . it also means use of quantity-based pollution limits such as transferable permits , rather than price-based limits such as effluent fees . that 's because quota-trained managers will likely respond better to quantity than to price signals . -- creative financing . even least-cost environmental solutions will require billions of dollars . new types of financing must make funds available without draining poland 's hard-currency reserves . -- democratization . east bloc pollution data typically have been state secrets . while polish data have been freely available since 1980 , it was no accident that participants urged the free flow of information . for once information flows , public participation follows and repression becomes difficult to reimpose . -- global reciprocity . one participant prematurely declared that america has had a free market in goods but a planned economy for environmental protection , while poland represents the opposite . his point : it will be increasingly difficult for the u.s. to cling to command-and-control measures if even the east bloc steps to a different drummer . at the moment , poland resembles 19th-century pittsburgh more than a modern industrial society -- with antiquated production , inadequate environmental management , and little ecological awareness . but the continuing pressures for free-market economics suggest 0 the conference 's vision was not all fantasy . mr. levin , former head of epa 's regulatory reform staff , adapted this from his november column for the journal of the air and waste management association .