in the long , frightening night after tuesday 's devastating earthquake , bay area residents searched for comfort and solace wherever they could . some found it on the screen of a personal computer . hundreds of californians made their way to their computers after the quake , and checked in with each other on electronic bulletin boards , which link computers cb-radio-style , via phone lines . some of the most vivid bulletins came over the well , a sausalito , calif. , board that is one of the liveliest outposts of the electronic underground . about two-thirds of the well 's 3,000 subscribers live in the bay area . the quake knocked the well out for six hours , but when it came back up , it teemed with emotional first-hand reports . following are excerpts from the electronic traffic that night . the time is pacific daylight time , and the initials or nicknames are those 0 subscribers use to identify themselves . 11:54 p.m . jckc : wow ! i was in the avenues , on the third floor of an old building , and except for my heart -lrb- beat , beat ! -rrb- i 'm ok . got back to bolinas , and everything had fallen : broken poster frames with glass on the floor , file cabinets open or dumped onto the floor . 11:59 p.m . jkd : i was in my favorite watering hole , waiting for the game to start . i felt the temblor begin and glanced at the table next to mine , smiled that guilty smile and we both mouthed the words , `` earth-quake ! '' together . that 's usually how long it takes for the temblors to pass . this time , it just got stronger and then the building started shaking violently up and down as though it were a child 's toy block that was being tossed . 12:06 a.m . hrh : i was in the berkeley main library when it hit . endless seconds wondering if those huge windows would buckle and shower us with glass . only a few books fell in the reading room . then the auto paint shop fire sent an evil-looking cloud of black smoke into the air . 12:07 a.m . onezie : my younger daughter and i are fine . this building shook like hell and it kept getting stronger . except for the gas tank at hustead 's towing service exploding and burning in downtown berkeley , things here are quite peaceful . a lot of car alarms went off . the cats are fine , although nervous . 12:15 a.m . dhawk : huge fire from broken gas main in the marina in sf . areas that are made of ` fill ' liquefy . a woman in a three-story apartment was able to walk out the window of the third floor onto street level after the quake . the house just settled right down into the ground . 12:38 a.m . dayac : i was driving my truck , stopped at a red light at the corner of shattuck and alcatraz at the oakland-berkeley border when it hit . worst part was watching power lines waving above my head and no way 0 to drive away . 12:48 a.m . lmeyer : was 300 ft. out on a pier in san rafael . it flopped all around , real dramatic ! many hairline cracks in the concrete slabs afterwards . ruined the damn fishing ! 1:00 a.m . heynow : i rode it out on the second floor of leo 's at 55th and telegraph in oakland . i heard parts of the building above my head cracking . i actually thought that i might die . i could n't decide if i should come home to marin , because my house is on stilts . i decided to brave the storm . there was a horrible smell of gas as i passed the chevron refinery before crossing the richmond-san rafael bridge . i could also see the clouds across the bay from the horrible fire in the marina district of san francisco . i have felt many aftershocks . my back is still in knots and my hands are still shaking . i think 0 a few of the aftershocks might just be my body shaking . 1:11 a.m. gr8flred : i could see the flames from san francisco from my house across the bay . it 's hard to believe 0 this really is happening . 1:11 a.m . rd : building on the corner severely damaged , so an old lady and her very old mother are in the guest room . books and software everywhere . this being typed in a standing position . 1:20 a.m . dgault : bolinas -- astride the san andreas fault . did n't feel a thing , but noticed some strange bird behavior . duck swarms . 3:25 a.m . samurai : i just felt another aftershock a few seconds ago . i 'm just numb . 3:25 a.m . macpost : downtown bolinas seems to be the part of town that 's worst off . no power , minimal phones , and a mess of mayonnaise , wine , and everything else all over the floors of the big old general store and the people 's co-op . the quivers move through my house every few minutes at unpredictable intervals , and the mouse that 's been living in my kitchen has taken refuge under my desk . it runs out frantically now and then , and is clearly pretty distressed . i was in stinson beach when the quake rolled through town . at first , we were unfazed . then as things got rougher , we ran for the door and spent the next few minutes outside watching the brick sidewalk under our feet oozing up and down , and the flowers waving in an eerie rhythm . amazing what it does to one 's heart rate and one 's short-term memory . everyone looked calm , but there was this surreal low level of confusion as the aftershocks continued . 4:02 a.m . shibumi : power is back on , and ucsf -lcb- medical center -rcb- seems to have quieted down for the night -lrb- they were doing triage out in the parking lot from the sound and lights of it -rrb- . a friend of mine was in an underground computer center in downtown sf when the quake hit . he said that one of the computers took a three-foot trip sliding across the floor . today should be interesting as people realize how hard life is going to be here for a while . 4:30 a.m . kim : i got home , let the dogs into the house and noticed some sounds above my head , as if someone were walking on the roof , or upstairs . then i noticed 0 the car was bouncing up and down as if someone were jumping on it . i realized what was happening and screamed into the house for the dogs . cupboard doors were flying , the trash can in the kitchen walked a few feet , the dogs came running , and i scooted them into the dog run and stood in the doorway myself , watching the outside trash cans dance across the concrete . when i realized 0 it was over , i went and stood out in front of the house , waiting and praying for merrill to come home , shivering as if it were 20 below zero until he got there . never in my life have i been so frightened . when i saw the pictures of 880 and the bay bridge , i began to cry . 5:09 a.m . jroe : the sunset -lcb- district -rcb- was more or less like a pajama party all evening , lots of people & dogs walking around , drinking beer . 6:50 a.m . carolg : i was just sitting down to meet with some new therapy clients , a couple , and the building started shaking like crazy . it 's a flimsy structure , built up on supports , and it was really rocking around . the three of us stopped breathing for a moment , and then when it kept on coming we lunged for the doorway . needless to say , it was an interesting first session ! 7:13 a.m . calliope : albany escaped embarrassingly unscathed . biggest trouble was scared family who could n't get a phone line through , and spent a really horrible hour not knowing . 8:01 a.m . hlr : judy and i were in our back yard when the lawn started rolling like ocean waves . we ran into the house to get mame , but the next tremor threw me in the air and bounced me as i tried to get to my feet . we are all fine here , although mame was extremely freaked . kitchen full of broken crystal . books and tapes all over my room . not one thing in the house is where it is supposed to be , but the structure is fine . while i was standing on the lawn with mame , waiting for another tremor , i noticed that all the earthworms were emerging from the ground and slithering across the lawn ! 9:31 a.m. gr8flred : it 's amazing how one second can so completely change your life . 9:38 a.m . fig : i guess 0 we 're all living very tentatively here , waiting for the expected but dreaded aftershock . it 's hard to accept that it 's over and only took 15 seconds . i wonder when we 'll be able to relax . 9:53 a.m . panda : flesh goes to total alert for flight or fight . nausea seems a commonplace symptom . berkeley very quiet right now . i walked along shattuck between delaware and cedar at a few minutes before eight this morning . next to chez panisse a homeless couple , bundled into a blue sleeping bag , sat up , said , `` good morning '' and then the woman smiled , said , `` is n't it great just to be alive ? '' i agreed . it is . great .