stanislav ovcharenko , who represents the soviet airline aeroflot here , has some visions that are wild even by the current standards of perestroika . in his office overlooking the runway of shannon airport , mr. ovcharenko enthusiastically throws out what he calls `` just ideas '' : first , he suggests 0 , gpa group ltd. , the international aircraft leasing company based in ireland , could lease some of its boeing jetliners to the soviet airline . then aer lingus , the irish flag carrier , could teach aeroflot pilots to fly the boeings , and the fleet could be based here at shannon airport . that 's not all , he says 0 . aer rianta , the irish airport authority , could build a cargo terminal in the soviet union . aeroflot could lease some of its cargo planes to aer lingus , through gpa , for a joint-venture cargo airline . and then there is his notion of an irish-soviet charter airline 0 to ferry armenians to los angeles via shannon . have the freedoms of glasnost gone to mr. ovcharenko 's head ? hardly . the irish-soviet aviation connection is alive and well here at shannon airport . gpa is indeed talking about leasing western planes to aeroflot and even about buying soviet-built tupolev 204s . aer lingus is in discussions with the soviet carrier about a cargo venture and other possibilities . aer rianta already has so many ventures with aeroflot that its chief executive is studying russian . unlikely as it may seem , tiny , politically neutral ireland has penetrated the mighty soviet airline bureaucracy . and as aeroflot struggles to boost its service standards , upgrade its fleet and pursue commercial opportunities , the irish aviation industry seems poised to benefit . `` irish and soviet people are similar , '' says mr. ovcharenko . `` they look the same . they 're very friendly . '' moreover , he says 0 , irish companies are small but spunky . `` we have to study their experience very well , '' he says . `` we must find any way 0 to get business . '' the two groups have been working together since the late 1970s , long before soviet joint ventures were the rage in the west . aeroflot carried about 125 million passengers last year , and shannon airport , the airline 's largest transit airport outside the soviet union , saw 1,400 aeroflot flights and 250,000 passengers pass through . an apartment complex down the road is the crew-rest and staging area for more than 130 aeroflot pilots and flight attendants . the airport 's biggest supplier of aircraft fuel is the soviet union . tankers from the latvian port of ventspils each year unload 25 million gallons of fuel into a special tank farm at the airport . what aeroflot does n't pour into its own gas-guzzling ilyushins is bartered to the airport authority , which resells it to 11 western carriers including air france , trans world airlines and pakistan international airlines . aeroflot thus pays its landing fees , ground-handling and catering bills with fuel , preserving its hard currency . that is n't all . last year , the irish airport authority , in a joint venture with aeroflot , opened four hard-currency duty-free shops at moscow 's sheremetyevo airport . aer rianta now manages duty-free sales on all aeroflot international flights out of moscow . duty-free shops in leningrad 's pulkova airport opened in july , and hard-currency shops in leningrad hotels and on the soviet-finnish frontier are coming soon . aer rianta is talking about similar joint ventures in tashkent and in sochi , a black sea resort , and even has a computer-assembly project cooking with the georgian city of tbilisi . aeroflot 's international fleet of 285 planes is being repainted and refurbished at shannon airport . thanks to a new air-traffic agreement and the ability of irish travel agents to issue aeroflot tickets , tourists here are taking advantage of aeroflot 's reasonable prices to board flights in shannon for holidays in havana , kingston and mexico city . the round-trip fare to havana is 410 irish punts -lrb- $ 578 -rrb- . jamaica costs 504 punts . a formal blessing of sorts was bestowed on this friendship in april when mikhail and raisa gorbachev stopped here for talks with irish prime minister charles haughey . new trade accords were signed . it all started with geography . when it opened in 1939 , shannon was the first landfall in europe for thirsty airplanes flying from north america . advances in aircraft fuel efficiency over the years made a shannon stop unnecessary for most western air fleets , but aeroflot still flies inefficient ilyushins that ca n't make it from moscow to managua on one hop . as a result , ireland did n't spurn the soviets after they shot down a korean air lines jetliner over the sea of japan in 1983 , though it suspended direct moscow-shannon flights for two months . in fact , aer lingus started ferrying russians from shannon to new york when washington stripped aeroflot of its u.s. landing rights . today , aer rianta is making a heap of money from its soviet friendship . and , with those contacts in place , it could be relatively simple to add aer lingus and gpa to the team . then , perhaps , mr. ovcharenko 's ideas would n't sound like so much blarney .