while wall street is retreating from computer-driven program trading , big institutional investors are likely to continue these strategies at full blast , further roiling the stock market , trading executives say 0 . bowing to a mounting public outcry , three more major securities firms -- bear , stearns & co. inc. , morgan stanley & co. and oppenheimer & co. -- announced friday 0 they would suspend stock-index arbitrage trading for their own accounts . painewebber group inc. announced a pullback on thursday from stock-index arbitrage , a controversial program-trading strategy blamed by many investors for encouraging big stock-market swings . though the trading halts are offered as a sign of concern about recent stock market volatility , most wall street firms remain open to handle program trading for customers . trading executives privately say that huge stock-index funds , which dwarf wall street firms in terms of the size of their program trades , will continue to launch big programs through the stock market . wells fargo investment advisers , bankers trust co. and mellon capital management are among the top stock-index arbitrage clients of wall street , trading executives say . these huge stock-index funds build portfolios that match the s&p 500 stock index or other stock indexes , and frequently swap between stocks and futures to capture profits . `` they will do it every chance 0 they get , '' said one program-trading executive . consequently , abrupt swings in the stock market are not likely to disappear anytime soon , they say 0 . in fact , without wall street firms trading for their own accounts , the stock-index arbitrage trading opportunities for the big funds may be all the more abundant . `` more customers may come to us now , '' said james cayne , president of bear stearns cos . executives who manage these funds see the current debate over program trading as a repeat of the concern expressed after the 1987 crash . they noted that studies completed after the 1987 crash exonerated program trading as a source of volatility . `` the issues that are -lrb- now -rrb- being raised , in classic anti-intellectual fashion , fly in the face of a number of post-crash studies , '' said fred grauer , chairman of wells fargo investment advisers . a bankers trust spokesman said that the company 's investment arm uses stock-index arbitrage to enhance investors ' returns . officials at mellon capital were unavailable for comment . stock-index funds have grown in popularity over the past decade as pension funds and other institutional investors have sought a low-cost way 0 to match the performance of the stock market as a whole . many money managers who trade stock actively have trouble consistently matching the s&p-500 's returns . some stock-index funds are huge . wells fargo investment advisers , for example , managed $ 25 billion in stock investments tracking the s&p 500 at the end of june , according to standard & poor 's corp . mr. grauer said 0 $ 2 billion of that is used in active index arbitrage . stock-index funds frequently use the futures markets as a hedging tool , but that is a far less aggressive strategy than stock-index arbitrage , in which traders buy and sell big blocks of stocks with offsetting trades in stock-index futures to profit from price differences . the 190-point plunge in the stock market oct. 13 has heightened concerns about volatility . and while signs of an economic slowdown , softer corporate earnings and troubles with takeover financing all have contributed to the stock market 's recent weakness , many investors rushed to blame program trading for aggravating market swings . the wall street firms ' pullback followed their recent blacklisting by several institutional investors . last tuesday , kemper corp. 's kemper financial services inc. unit said 0 it would no longer trade with firms committed to stock-index arbitrage , including the three that later suspended stock-index arbitrage trading on friday . phoenix mutual life insurance co. and founders asset management inc. also cut off brokerage firms that engage in program trading . though it is still doing stock-index arbitrage trades for customers , morgan stanley 's trading halt for its own account is likely to shake up firms such as kidder , peabody & co. that still do such trades for their own account . morgan stanley has consistently been one of the top stock-index arbitrage traders in recent months . indeed , morgan stanley 's president , richard b. fisher , said 0 the firm is putting up money 0 to form a group of regulators , investors and investment banks to find out if stock-index arbitrage artificially induces stock-market volatility . `` we have to clear up these issues and find out what is present that is creating artificial volatility , '' mr. fisher said 0 . `` there is no question that investor confidence -lrb- in the stock market -rrb- is critical . '' joining the call for some kind of study or regulatory action , merrill lynch & co. recommended program-trading reforms late friday , including higher margins on stock-index futures and greater regulatory coordination . separately , mr. cayne of bear stearns said 0 his firm is working with regulators to balance margin requirements to `` enhance stabilization . '' margin rules determine the minimum amount of cash 0 an investor must put up when buying a security . current rules permit investors to put up less cash for futures than for stocks . some observers say that different rules governing stock and futures markets are partly responsible for volatility . these rules , they say 0 , permit faster and cheaper trading in futures than in stocks , which frequently knocks the two markets out of line . stock-index arbitrage , because it sells the more `` expensive '' market and buys the `` cheaper '' one , attempts to reestablish the link between the stock and futures markets , and the adjustments are often abrupt . but unequal trading rules allow the futures market to trade differently from stocks , which invites frequent bouts of stock-index arbitrage in the first place . `` there has to be better coordination on a regulatory basis , '' said christopher pedersen , director of trading at twenty-first securities corp . `` one agency should have the authority over all equity products .