giovanni agnelli & co. announced a transaction that will strengthen its indirect control of fiat s.p . a. and will admit prince karim aga khan as its first non-family shareholder . giovanni agnelli , a limited partnership that is the master holding company for fiat 's agnelli family , owns approximately 75 % of the shares in istituto finanziario industriale , which in turn owns approximately 40 % of fiat , italy 's biggest private-sector industrial group . the company said 0 maria sole agnelli teodorani , sister of fiat chairman giovanni agnelli , agreed to trade her shares in ifi for new ordinary shares in the limited partnership , which will give her control of 4.67 % of giovanni agnelli & co . the aga khan , meanwhile , agreed to trade some of his stake in luxembourg-based ifint s.a. , another agnelli family company , for 7.45 % of giovanni agnelli & co. 's capital . his new stake would be in the form of preferred shares , which receive higher dividends but have voting rights only in extraordinary shareholders assemblies . the aga khan owns 10 % of ifint 's capital , while ifi owns 23 % . as a result of the transaction , which is expected to be approved at a shareholders meeting nov. 24 , giovanni agnelli & co. will control 79.18 % of ifi 's ordinary shares . its capital will also be raised to 232.4 billion lire -lrb- $ 172.5 million -rrb- from the current 204.3 billion lire . ifi also has nonvoting preferred shares , which are quoted on the milan stock exchange . the value of the two transactions was n't disclosed , but an ifi spokesman said 0 no cash would change hands . the move strengthens the existing links between the agnellis and the aga khan , the head of the world 's ismaili moslems who is a longtime family friend and frequently goes sailing with mr. agnelli . mr. agnelli and the aga khan also have some business ties , and a spokesman for the agnelli company did n't rule out that the current agreement could lead to further collaboration . for instance , ifint earlier this year bought an 18 % stake in alisarda , the aga khan 's airline , which flies between italy and sardinia . giovanni agnelli & co. , which was formed in january 1987 as a way of keeping the agnellis ' controlling stake in fiat together despite an ever-growing family tree , has been playing a more active role in the agnelli group of late . it raised financing of 300 billion lire for the purchase this summer by another agnelli-related group of the food concern galbani s.p . a. , by selling a chunk of its ifi shares to mediobanca s.p . a. mediobanca said during the weekend that it agreed to sell the shares back to giovanni agnelli for 333 billion lire .