the estimates of real gross national product prepared by the bureau of economic analysis in the department of commerce significantly understate the rate of economic growth . since the bureau 's estimates for the business sector provide the numerator for the productivity ratios calculated by the department of labor , underestimated growth rates artificially depress official productivity statistics . if this thesis is correct , it has important implications for macroeconomic policies : it may lower the sense of urgency behind efforts 0 to enact tax incentives and other measures 0 to increase the rate of growth in productivity and real gnp . it would also affect the perceptions of the board of governors of the federal reserve system , and the informed public generally , as to what constitutes a reasonable degree of price stability . in the early 1980s , i predicted a significant acceleration in productivity growth over the rest of the decade . this forecast was based on the apparent reversal of most of the negative forces -- such as demographic changes , the oil shock and accelerating inflation -- that had reduced productivity gains in the 1970s . there has indeed been more than a one percentage point improvement in productivity growth since 1981 . but i had expected more , which is one reason 0 i began looking at evidence suggesting defects in the official output estimates . the evidence does not clearly support the view that the downward bias in output growth has become greater during the 1948-89 period , but all 0 i am claiming is that the growth trend is understated . -lrb- it is , however , possible , that further study will reveal increasing bias . -rrb- this bias is in no way deliberate . the understatement of growth is due largely to the conservative expedients adopted to deal with deficiencies in basic economic data . the first of three major sources of error is the use of labor input estimates -lrb- mainly employment or hours -rrb- instead of output estimates for those sectors , such as governments , paid household services and private non-profit institutions , where there are difficulties in assembling output data . this means that no allowance is made for possible increases in output per unit of labor . in an unrelated program in which the labor department does estimate output per employee for more than two-thirds of federal civilian employees , it found an average annual rate of productivity improvement of 1.7 % during the 1980s . even if it is assumed that productivity rose no more than half as quickly in the rest of the nonbusiness sector , this labor department estimate indicates a downward bias in the real gnp estimates of 0.2 percentage point a year , on average . the federal productivity estimators use labor input , rather than output , data for their calculations of half of private financial and service industries as well . independent estimates of output in those industries , including one by the department of labor for banking , suggests that productivity in finance and services appears to have risen by an average of at least 1.5 % a year between 1948 and 1988 . because finance and services contribute 10 % to final business product , missing these productivity improvements depresses the overall growth rate by 0.15 % a year . the second source of error in growth statistics is the use of inappropriate deflators 0 to adjust for price changes . i estimate that these mismeasurements as detailed by martin n. baily and robert j. gordon add a further 0.12 percentage point to the downward bias in the growth rate of real business product . finally , the official estimates understate growth because they make inadequate allowance for improvements in quality of goods and services . in 1985 , a new price index for computers adjusted for changes in performance characteristics was introduced , and that resulted in a significantly larger increase in real outlays for durable goods than the earlier estimates had showed . since then , further research argues that failure to take account of quality improvements has contributed a total of at least 0.26 percentage point to the downward bias in the growth rate . in sum , the biases ennumerated above indicate a 0.7 percentage point understatement in growth of total real gnp . for the private domestic business economy , the bias was a bit over 0.5 percentage point . in other words , the growth rates of both total gnp and real private business product per labor hour have been underestimated by about 20 % . mr. kendrick is professor emeritus of economics at george washington university . he is co-author of `` personal productivity : how to increase your satisfaction in living '' -lrb- m.e. sharp , 1988 -rrb- .