west german insurance giant allianz ag entered the takeover battle between france 's cie . financiere de paribas and cie. de navigation mixte . allianz said 0 it won french government approval to buy as much as one-third of navigation mixte , a diversified financial , transport and food holding company . the move comes a week after paribas announced that it was preparing to bid for 66.7 % control of navigation mixte . munich-based allianz 's brief explanatory statement said 0 it is acting to protect its own interests as a shareholder of navigation mixte . that would be a blow to both paribas and navigation mixte . each had claimed allianz , europe 's largest insurance company , as a tacit ally . the allianz statement also reinforced the belief that the takeover battle could be a long one . it led to broad market speculation that paribas now will sweeten its bid , which is expected to be formally launched later this week , after approval from french government regulators . allianz 's entry reflects the increasing eagerness of west german companies , looking ahead to the reduction in european community internal barriers in 1992 , to get involved in what until now were considered internal french affairs . deutsche bank , dresdner bank and commerzbank all also have expressed eagerness to expand in france before 1992 . dresdner bank this month moved to acquire banque internationale des placements , a small french merchant bank that deutsche bank had looked at and passed over . commerzbank had hoped to buy a stake in credit lyonnais , until the socialists returned to government last year and canceled plans to privatize the large french bank . deutsche bank has actively sought a french acquisition for at least two years . lately , analysts say 0 , deutsche bank has shocked some in the french financial community by indicating 0 it wants a strong bank with a large number of branches . `` we are still looking , '' said a deutsche bank spokesman . `` the banks 0 we think 0 would fit into our concept are either government-owned or not for sale , though deutsche bank would be able to pay a good price . '' while allianz officials were n't willing to comment in any detail on their plans , they said 0 allianz currently holds between 5 % and 10 % of navigation mixte , an apparent increase from the 5 % stake that navigation mixte officials had earlier announced . paris market sources said 0 they believed 0 allianz was buying yesterday morning , and navigation mixte moved up 108 francs -lrb- $ 17.19 -rrb- to close at 1,908 francs in heavy trading . it was the first day of trading following the suspension of navigation mixte shares last monday , when paribas announced its plan to pay 1,850 francs for each navigation mixte share . allianz also holds a 50 % stake in navigation mixte 's insurance subsidiary , one of france 's largest insurance groups , which it bought for about 6.5 billion francs just before paribas launched its bid . navigation mixte holds the remaining 50 % . allianz said in its statement that it was acting to protect that interest , which ties it to navigation mixte as a partner . allianz 's statement stressed the company 's previously announced position that paribas 's offer price is too low . allianz also suggested , without saying so directly , that it regrets that paribas is n't bidding for all of navigation mixte 's shares . the problem here , analysts say 0 , is that if paribas wins its 66.7 % , remaining navigation mixte shares will fall in value . that displeases many current holders , such as allianz , which could n't be sure of selling all their shares if they tendered to paribas . the allianz statement led to speculation that allianz eventually could sell to paribas . that would be bad news for navigation mixte 's current management , which was counting on allianz to help fend off paribas . allianz did n't say whom , if anyone , it will support . it said simply that it will boost its navigation mixte stake as it sees fit over the coming days to protect itself , as long as it has french regulatory officials ' approval . paribas currently intends to offer 1,850 francs a share for navigation mixte shares that receive full dividends this year . it is to offer 1,800 francs for shares created on july 1 , which receive partial dividends . alternatively , it would offer to swap three paribas shares for one navigation mixte share . paribas already holds about 18.7 % of navigation mixte , and the acquisition of the additional 48 % would cost it about 11 billion francs under its current bid . the bid values navigation mixte at around 23 billion francs , depending on how many holders of navigation mixte warrants exchange them for shares before the bid expires .