usx corp. posted a 23 % drop in third-quarter profit , as improved oil results failed to offset weakness in steel and natural gas operations . the nation 's largest steelmaker earned $ 175 million , or 62 cents a share , compared with the year-earlier $ 228 million , or 80 cents a share . the recent quarter includes pretax gains of $ 98 million from asset sales , while like gains in the year-earlier quarter totaled $ 61 million . in the 1988 period , usx also had a $ 71 million after-tax gain from a tax dispute settlement . sales rose 5 % to $ 4.4 billion from $ 4.2 billion . the earnings drop appears particularly steep in comparison with last year 's unusually strong third quarter , when the company was riding an industrywide boom in demand and pricing . however , third-quarter operating profit fell 14 % , as usx sold sizable chunks of its diversified and steel segments , eliminating income from those operations . among segments that continue to operate , though , the company 's steel division continued to suffer from soft demand for its tubular goods serving the oil industry and other markets . peter marcus , an analyst with painewebber inc. , said that a downturn in the appliance industry , coupled with sluggish automotive sales , hurt usx results . moreover , usx exports more than other steelmakers , and the overseas market has been under more severe pricing pressure . the company attributed lower sales and earnings for the steel segment to the loss of results from the lorain , ohio , plant , which now is a 50-50 joint venture with japan 's kobe steel ltd . in the steel division , operating profit dropped 11 % to $ 85 million . profit per ton of steel shipped dropped to about $ 33 a ton from $ 42 a ton last year and $ 53 a ton in the second quarter , analysts said 0 . still , usx fared better than other major steelmakers , earning more per ton of steel shipped than either bethlehem steel corp. , which posted a 54 % drop in net income , or inland steel industries inc. , whose profit plummeted 70 % . in new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday , usx shares closed up $ 1.25 , at $ 34.625 , as the reported earnings exceeded projections by some analysts who had n't expected as great a volume of asset sales . the rise in the stock 's price may also reflect the fact that usx 's steel segment fared better than some other steelmakers ' . charles bradford , an analyst with merrill lynch capital markets , said 0 usx may have received orders lost by competitors who were involved in labor contracts earlier this year . he said 0 usx also appeared to sell a richer mix of steel products , such as the more profitable pipe and galvanized coated sheet , than lower-priced structural goods . the energy segment , with a 15 % rise in operating profit , is clearly the company 's strongest . higher crude oil prices helped boost operating profit for the marathon oil co. unit to $ 198 million from $ 180 million . the texas oil & gas division continues to operate in the red , although losses narrowed to $ 9 million from $ 15 million . usx announced in october that it was soliciting bids to sell txo 's oil and gas reserves . proceeds of that sale are to be used to reduce debt and buy back shares . the company noted that it has reduced debt by $ 1.6 billion since the end of 1988 and bought back about 15.5 million shares of common stock since the fourth quarter of 1987 . usx has about $ 5.5 billion in long-term debt and 257 million shares outstanding . the announced sale of the reserves was followed by news that investor carl icahn had increased his stake in usx to 13.1 % and threatened a takeover or other business combination . mr. icahn has said 0 he believes 0 usx would be worth more if broken up into steel and energy segments . profit for the nine months jumped 21 % to $ 721 million , or $ 2.62 a share , from $ 598 million , or $ 2.07 a share . sales rose 10 % to $ 13.8 billion from $ 12.5 billion .