as the citizens of san francisco and surrounding communities began assessing the damage from tuesday 's devastating earthquake , nbc news began assessing the damage from what some said 0 was a failure to provide comprehensive coverage in the earthquake 's initial moments . `` in terms of coverage , it was a disaster equal to the earthquakes , '' said eric premner , president for broadcasting of king broadcasting co. , which owns the nbc affiliate in seattle , wash . while rival abc news outstripped the competition in live coverage of the event by sheer luck -- the network was broadcasting the world series from candlestick park when the quake struck -- nbc news was unable to get its signal out of san francisco for the first hour after the quake . `` i have to attribute the lackluster performance to a natural disaster , '' said mr. premner . `` so before i start to be really critical of nbc , i would like to know more about what happened . '' there were no complaints from affiliates of cbs inc. and cable news network , a unit of turner broadcasting system inc . but that was not the case at nbc news , which has been dogged with the image of not being aggressive on major breaking stories . last summer , the affiliates bitterly complained to network executives about the poor coverage of the student uprising in china . `` i was not pleased with the slow start , and neither was nbc news , '' said guy hempel , general manager of nbc affiliate wave in louisville , ky . a spokesman for national broadcasting co. , a unit of general electric co. , said 0 the network was `` looking into what happened . '' the stations said 0 they were pleased with the extended coverage yesterday , including a special five-hour edition of `` today . '' don browne , director of news at nbc news , said in an interview that `` we could n't get a signal out of san francisco . we were out of the box . it was horrible . the comment 0 we 're hearing is that we were slow out of the box , but beat everyone else in the stretch . '' nbc broadcast throughout the entire night and did not go off the air until noon yesterday . the quake postponed the third and fourth games of the world series . in place of the games , abc said 0 it planned to broadcast next week 's episodes of its prime-time wednesday and thursday lineups , except for a one-hour special on the earthquake at 10 p.m. last night . the series is scheduled to resume tuesday evening in san francisco . `` there are no commercials 0 to make up for since we 're going to eventually broadcast the world series , '' said a network spokesman .