fox hunting has been defined as the unspeakable in pursuit of the inedible , but at least it 's exercise . at least it has a little dash . most of us have to spend our time on pursuits that afford neither , drab duties rather than pleasures . like trying to buy life insurance , for instance , an endeavor notably lacking in dash . call it the uninformed trudging after the incomprehensible . but sooner or later , most of us have to think about life insurance , just as we often have to think about having root-canal work . and my time has come . i 'm 33 , married , no children , and employed in writing stories like this one . in times past , life-insurance salesmen targeted heads of household , meaning men , but ours is a two-income family and accustomed to it . so if anything happened to me , i 'd want to leave behind enough so that my 33-year-old husband would be able to pay off the mortgage and some other debts -lrb- though not , i admit , enough to put any potential second wife in the lap of luxury -rrb- . figuring that maybe $ 100,000 to $ 150,000 would do but having no idea of what kind of policy i wanted , i looked at the myriad products of a dozen companies -- and plunged into a jungle of gibberish . over the past decade or two , while i was thinking about fox hunting , the insurance industry has spawned an incredible number of products , variations on products , and variations on the variations . besides term life and whole life -lrb- the old standbys -rrb- , we now have universal life , universal variable life , flexible adjustable universal life , policies with persistency bonuses , policies festooned with exotic riders , living benefit policies , and on and on . what to do ? first , generalize . shorn of all their riders , special provisions , and other bells and whistles , insurance policies can still be grouped under two broad categories : so-called pure insurance , which amasses no cash value in the policy and pays off only upon death , and permanent insurance , which provides not only a death benefit but also a cash value in the policy that can be used in various ways while the insured is still alive . if all 0 you want is death-benefit coverage , pure insurance -- a term policy -- gives you maximum bang for your buck , within limits . it 's much cheaper than permanent insurance bought at the same age . but `` term '' means just that ; the policy is written for a specific time period only and must be renewed when it expires . it may also stipulate that the insured must pass another medical exam before renewal ; if you flunk -- which means 0 you need insurance more than ever -- you may not be able to buy it . even if you 're healthy and can renew , your premium will go up sharply because you 're that much older . so term insurance may not be as cheap as it looks . there are all sorts of variations on term insurance : policies structured to pay off your mortgage debt , term riders tacked on to permanent insurance , and many others . one variation that appealed to me at first was the `` money smart term life '' policy offered by amex life insurance co. , the american express unit , to the parent company 's credit-card holders . upon examination , however , i wondered whether the plan made a lot of sense . amex said 0 it would charge me $ 576 a year for $ 100,000 of coverage -- and would pay me back all the premiums 0 i put in if i canceled the policy after 10 years . sounds great -- or does it ? first , if i canceled , i 'd have no more insurance , a not insignificant consideration . second , the $ 5,760 0 i 'd get back would be much diminished in purchasing power by 10 years of inflation ; amex , not i , would get the benefit of the investment income on my money , income that would have exceeded the inflation rate and thus given the company a real profit . third and most important , amex would charge me a far higher premium than other reputable companies would on a straight term policy for the same amount ; i 'd be paying so heavily just to have the option of getting my premiums back that i 'd almost have to cancel to make the whole thing worthwhile . that would be all right with amex , which could then lock in its investment profit , but it does n't add up to a `` smart money '' move for me . which goes to show that the first law applies in insurance as in anything else : there is no free lunch , there is only marketing . and the second law , unique to insurance ? if i die early , i win -- a hollow victory , since i ca n't enjoy it -- and if i live long , the insurer wins . always . this is worth remembering when insurers and their salesmen try to sell you permanent insurance , the kind that amasses cash value . the word `` death '' can not be escaped entirely by the industry , but salesmen dodge it wherever possible or cloak it in euphemisms , preferring to talk about `` savings '' and `` investment '' instead . the implication is that your permanent-insurance policy is really some kind of cd or mutual-fund account with an added feature . that is gilding the lily . the fact is that as a savings or investment vehicle , insurance generally runs a poor second to any direct investment 0 you might make in the same things 0 the insurance company is putting your money into . that 's because you have to pay for the insurance portion of the policy and the effort required to sell and service the whole package . again , no free lunch . this is reflected in a built-in mortality cost -- in effect , your share of the company 's estimated liability in paying off beneficiaries of people who had the effrontery to die while under its protection . and in most cases , a huge hunk of your premium in the initial year or two of the the policy is , in effect , paying the salesman 's commission as well ; investment returns on most policies are actually negative for several years , largely because of this . so view permanent insurance for what it is -- a compromise between pure insurance and direct investment . the simplest , most traditional form of permanent insurance is the straight whole life policy . you pay a set premium for a set amount of coverage , the company invests that premium in a portfolio of its choosing , and your cash value and dividends grow over the years . one newer wrinkle , so called single-premium life -lrb- you pay for the whole policy at once -rrb- , has been immensely popular in recent years for tax reasons ; the insured could extract cash value in the form of policy `` loans , '' and none of the proceeds were taxable even though they included gains on investment . congress closed this loophole last year , or thought 0 it did . however , monarch capital corp. of springfield , mass. , has developed a `` combination plan '' of annuity and insurance coverage that it says 0 does not violate the new regulations and that allows policy loans without tax consequences . but the percentage of your cash reserve that you can borrow tax-free is very small . i 'm not prepared in any case to put that much money into a policy immediately , so i look into the broad category called universal life . hugely popular , it is far more flexible than straight whole life . i can adjust the amount of insurance 0 i want against the amount going into investment ; i can pay more or less than the so-called target premium in a given year ; and i can even skip payments if my cash reserves are enough to cover the insurance portion of the policy . in looking at these and other policies , i learn to ask pointed questions about some of the assumptions built into `` policy illustrations '' -- the rows of numbers that show me the buildup of my cash values over the years . they commonly give two scenarios : one is based on interest rates that the company guarantees -lrb- usually 4 % to 4.5 % -rrb- and the other on the rate 0 it is currently getting on investment , often 8.5 % or more . projecting the latter over several decades , i find 0 my cash buildup is impressive -- but can any high interest rate prevail for that long ? not likely , i think 0 . also , some policy illustrations assume that mortality costs will decline or that i will get some sort of dividend bonus after the 10th year . these are not certain , either . companies `` are n't comfortable playing these games , but they realize 0 they 're under pressure to make their policies look good , '' says 0 timothy pfiefer , an actuarial consultant at tillinghast , a unit of towers perrin co. , the big new york consulting firm . another factor 0 to consider : some of the companies currently earning very high yields are doing so through substantial investment in junk bonds , and you know how nervous the market has been about those lately . there are seemingly endless twists to universal life , and it pays to ask questions about all of them . at a back-yard barbecue , for example , a friend boasts that she 'll only have to pay premiums on her john hancock policy for seven years and that her death benefits will then be `` guaranteed . '' i call her agent , david dominici . yes , he says 0 , premiums on such variable-rate coverage can be structured to `` vanish '' after a certain period -- but usually only if interest rates stay high enough to generate sufficient cash 0 to cover the annual cost of insurance protection . if interest rates plunge , the insurer may be knocking on my door , asking for steeper premium payments 0 to maintain the same amount of protection . i do n't like the sound of that . some insurers have also started offering `` persistency bonuses , '' such as extra dividends or a marginally higher interest yield , if the policy is maintained for 10 years . but glenn daily , a new york-based financial consultant , warns that many of these bonuses are `` just fantasies , '' because most are n't guaranteed by the companies . and the feature is so new , he adds 0 , that no insurer has yet established a track record for actually making such payments . so-called living-benefits provisions also merit a close inspection . offered by insurers that include security-connecticut life insurance co. , jackson national life insurance co. , and national travelers life insurance co. , these policy riders let me tap a portion of my death benefits while i 'm still alive . some provisions would let me collect a percentage of the policy 's face value to pay for long-term care such as nursing-home stays ; others would allow payments for catastrophic illnesses and conditions such as cancer , heart attarcks , renal failure and kidney transplants . but the catastrophic events for which the policyholder can collect are narrowly defined , vary from policy to policy , and generally permit use of only a small fraction of the face amount of insurance . also , financial planners advising on insurance say that to their knowledge there has not yet been a tax ruling exempting these advance payments from taxes . and considering the extra cost of such provisions , some figure that people interested in , say , paying for extended nursing-home care would be better off just buying a separate policy that provides it . i 'm more favorably impressed by `` no-load life , '' even though it turns out to be low-load life . insureres selling these policies market them directly to the public or otherwise do n't use commissioned salesmen ; there is still a load -- annual administrative fees and initial `` setup '' charges -- but i figure that the lack of commission and of `` surrender fees '' for dropping the policy early still saves me a lot . i compared one universal policy for $ 130,000 face amount from such an insurer , american life insurance corp. of lincoln , neb. , with a similar offering from equitable life assurance society of the u.s. , which operates through 11,000 commissioned salesmen . after one year i could walk away from the ameritas policy with $ 792 , but id get only $ 14 from the equitable . the difference is magnified by time , too . at age 65 , when i 'd stop paying premiums , the ameritas offering would have a projected cash value $ 14,000 higher than the other , even though the equitable 's policy illustration assumed a fractionally higher interest rate . did i buy it ? well , not yet . i 'm thinking about using the $ 871 annual premium to finance a trip to paris first . a person can do some heavy thinking about insurance there -- and shop for something more exciting while she 's doing it .