two recent decisions by federal courts cast judges in the odd role of telling authors how they should write history and biography . these decisions deserve more attention than they have received from scholars , and from journalists as well . russell miller 's `` bare-faced messiah : the true story of l. ron hubbard '' is a biography of the founder of the church of scientology . mr. hubbard , who died in 1986 , bequeathed the copyrights on his writings to his church , which licensed them to new era publications , a danish corporation . in 1988 new era sought a permanent injunction to restrain henry holt & co. from publishing `` bare-faced messiah '' on the ground that mr. miller 's quotations from mr. hubbard infringed the copyrights . the publisher argued in response that the `` fair use '' statute permits quotation `` for purposes such as criticism , comment , news reporting , teaching , ... scholarship , or research . '' district court judge pierre leval denied the injunction on the ground that new era had failed to make its claim within a reasonable time -- the doctrine 0 lawyers call `` laches . '' as for the merits , judge leval said that mr. miller had written `` a serious book of responsible historical criticism . '' verbatim quotation , the judge believed 0 , was justified in order to prove points 0 the author had asserted about mr. hubbard -- mendacity , bigotry , paranoia and other unlovely traits that could not be persuasively demonstrated without use of mr. hubbard 's own words . `` the biographer\/critic , '' judge leval wrote , `` should not be required simply to express ... conclusions without defending them by example . '' in such circumstances , free-speech interests outweighed the interests of the copyright owner . but judge leval felt constrained by an earlier decision of the second circuit court forbidding a biographer of j.d. salinger to quote from mr. salinger 's personal letters . he distinguished the two cases : in salinger , judge leval noted 0 , the quotations were for the purpose of enlivening the biography rather than of proving points about the subject . still the salinger decision created a strong presumption against fair use of unpublished materials . judge leval reluctantly concluded that a few of mr. miller 's quotations from mr. hubbard 's unpublished writings , because they were not necessary to prove historical points , failed the fair-use test and therefore infringed copyright . but the proper remedy , judge leval said 0 , lay in a suit for damages , not in an injunction . the case went on appeal to the second circuit . in a decision in april of this year , judge roger miner , joined by judge frank altimari , agreed on denying the injunction and did not doubt that `` bare-faced messiah '' was a serious work but rejected judge leval 's argument that the public interest in scholarship could outweigh the sanctity of copyright . `` we conclude , '' the two judges wrote , `` that laches is the sole bar to the issuance of an injunction . '' had the suit been filed in time , they said 0 , `` bare-faced messiah '' would have been suppressed . this was too much for james oakes , the court 's chief judge . in a powerful separate opinion , judge oakes further distinguished the salinger case by pointing out that a living person , like mr. salinger , had privacy rights that did not apply to a dead man , like mr. hubbard . `` i thought that salinger might by being taken in another factual context come back to haunt us . this case realizes that concern . '' decisions by the second circuit itself , judge oakes continued 0 , had recognized that public interest in the subject matter and the indispensability in particular cases of verbatim quotations are vital components of fair use . and the injunction 0 judges miner and altimari would so readily have granted had new era sued in time ? suppression of the book , judge oakes observed 0 , would operate as a prior restraint and thus involve the first amendment . moreover , and here judge oakes went to the heart of the question , `` responsible biographers and historians constantly use primary sources , letters , diaries , and memoranda . indeed , it would be irresponsible to ignore such sources of information . '' now , scholars in fulfilling their responsibility do not claim the right to invade every collection of papers that bears upon their topics of investigation . and of course they agree that people can impose restrictions on the use of their papers , whether in their own possession or as donated or sold to libraries . but in the `` bare-faced messiah '' case the author found most of his material in court records or via the freedom of information act . and when responsible scholars gain legitimate access to unpublished materials , copyright should not be permitted to deny them use of quotations that help to establish historical points . judges oakes and leval understand the requirements of historical scholarship . judges miner and altimari do not appear to have a clue . yet at the moment they are the judges who are making the law . as matters stand , the salinger ruling , torn from context and broadly construed , is controlling . if an author quotes `` more than minimal amounts '' of unpublished copyrighted materials , as the salinger decision had it , `` he deserves to be enjoined . '' the courts have not defined `` minimal amounts , '' but publishers , i understand 0 , take it to mean about 50 words . the `` bare-faced messiah '' decision strikes a blow against the whole historical enterprise . a second decision , handed down in august by the court of appeals for the ninth circuit , is another blow against scholarship . janet malcolm , a professional writer on psychiatric matters , wrote a series of articles for the new yorker , later published in book form by knopf under the title `` in the freud archives . '' the articles were largely based on interviews 0 ms. malcolm had taped with jeffrey masson , a psychoanalyst who had served as projects director of the freud archives . mr. masson then brought a libel suit against ms. malcolm , the new yorker and knopf . as a public figure , mr. masson had to prove malice and , as proof of malice , mr. masson contended that defamatory quotations ascribed to him by ms. malcolm were in fact fabricated . the quotes could not be found on the tapes , and the two judges who decided the case for ms. malcolm and her publishers conceded that , for the purpose of their decision , `` we assume 0 the quotations were deliberately altered . '' for all historians and most journalists , this admission would have been sufficient to condemn the malcolm articles . but judge arthur alarcon , joined by judge cynthia holcomb hall , took the astonishing position that it is perfectly ok to fabricate quotations so long as a judge finds that the fabrications do not alter substantive content or are rational interpretations of ambiguous remarks . in his eloquent dissent , judge alex kozinski observed that when a writer uses quotation marks in reporting what someone has said , the reader assumes that these are the speaker 's precise words or at least his words purged of `` uh '' and `` you know '' and grammatical error . while judges have an obligation under the first amendment to safeguard freedom of the press , `` the right to deliberately alter quotations is not , in my view , a concomitant of a free press . '' ms. malcolm , for example , wrote that mr. masson described himself as `` the greatest analyst who ever lived . '' no such statement appears on the tapes . the majority cited mr. masson 's remark `` it 's me alone ... against the rest of the analytic world '' as warrant for the malcolm fabrication . but , as judge kozinski noted , the context shows that mr. masson 's `` me alone '' remark referred not to his alleged pre-eminence in his profession but to the fact that his position on a particular issue was not shared by anyone else . ms. malcolm had mr. masson describing himself as `` an intellectual gigolo . '' again , no such statement appears on the tapes . the majority decision contended that the phrase was a rational interpretation of mr. masson 's description of himself as a `` private asset but a public liability '' to anna freud and that in any case it was not defamatory . judge kozinski found the derivation entirely strained and writes that `` for an academic to refer to himself as an intellectual gigolo is ... a devastating admission of professional dishonesty . '' these were only two of a series of fabrications that had , in judge kozinski 's words , the cumulative effect of making mr. masson `` appear more arrogant , less sensitive , shallower , more self-aggrandizing , and less in touch with reality than he appears from his own statements . '' as robert coles wrote in a review of ms. malcolm 's book , mr. masson emerges `` as a grandiose egotist ... and , in the end , a self-destructive fool . but it is not janet malcolm who calls him such : his own words reveal this psychological profile . '' we now know that the words were not always his own . `` there is one sacred rule of journalism , '' john hersey has said . `` the writer must not invent . '' should the green light 0 judges alarcon and hall have given to the fabrication of quotations become standard practice , it will notably reduce the value of journalism for historians -- and for citizens . as judge kozinski put it : `` to invoke the right to deliberately distort what someone else has said is to assert the right to lie in print ... . masson has lost his case , but the defendants , and the profession to which they belong , have lost far more . '' the historical profession will survive these decisions . perhaps in time the supreme court will correct them . but writing history is tough enough without judges gratuitously throwing obstacles in the scholar 's path . mr. schlesinger is albert schweitzer professor of the humanities at the city university of new york and a winner of pulitzer prizes in history and biography .