santa fe pacific was the kind of story 0 wall street loved . since the value of its assets was n't known , analysts were free to pick a number . in one of many rosy scenarios , bear stearns 's gary schneider wrote in march that its real estate alone had a value of $ 4.5 billion . throw in its railroad , minerals , pipeline and oil assets , he and others argued , and the chicago-based conglomerate should be worth 30 a share . and why should holders expect to realize that presumed `` worth ? '' that was another reason 0 the street loved santa fe . with real estate experts olympia & york and samuel zell 's itel owning close to 40 % of santa fe 's stock , management was under pressure -- in a favored phrase of wall street -- to quickly `` maximize values . '' but value , it turns out 0 , is only what a buyer will pay . and with the company 's recent announcement that it is contemplating a partial sale of its real estate , the values suddenly look poorer . santa fe has disclosed that it is negotiating to sell a 20 % interest in its real estate unit to the california public employees retirement system for roughly $ 400 million . since the real estate unit also includes debt , the imputed value of the real estate itself is close to $ 3 billion . `` the implied current net asset value of 22.70 -lcb- per share -rcb- is well below the 30 level that the street believed , '' painewebber says . `` the upside was in the intangible real estate ... which is no longer an intangible . '' so what is santa fe worth ? if the railroad is valued on a private market basis -- at the same multiple of earnings as in the recent sale of cnw -- it would have a value of $ 1.65 billion . a compromise between bulls and bears puts remaining assets and cash -- including its 44 % stake in its publicly traded pipeline -- at $ 2 billion . santa fe also has $ 3.7 billion in debt . in addition , its railroad lost a $ 750 million antitrust suit , which is on appeal , and which analysts say 0 could be settled for one-third that amount . that nets out to about $ 17 a share for the company on a private market basis . but santa fe , currently trading at 18 7\/8 , is n't likely to realize private market values by selling assets , because the tax against it would be onerous . its plan , instead , is to spin off the remainder of its real estate unit and to possibly do the same with its mining and energy assets . robert d. krebs , santa fe 's chairman , argues that since its businesses are valued in different ways , `` the sum of the parts may be greater than the whole . '' but it is n't clear why that should be so . the spinoff argument , after all , reverses the current notion that assets are worth more to private buyers than to public shareholders . and real estate usually has n't traded well under public ownership . salomon brothers says , `` we believe 0 the real estate properties would trade at a discount ... after the realty unit is spun off ... . and what about the cost , and risk , of waiting to realize the hypothetical private market values ? '' some analysts remain bullish . mr. schneider of bear stearns says 0 he is recalculating the worth of the company 's assets and , in the meantime , is sticking to his `` buy '' recommendation on the belief that he will find `` values '' of 30 a share . he adds : `` if for any reason i do n't have the values , then i wo n't recommend it . '' first boston 's graeme anne lidgerwood values santa fe at 24 , down from her earlier estimate of 29 . her recent report classifies the stock as a `` hold . '' but it appears to be the sort of hold 0 one makes while heading for the door . quoting from the report : `` the stock 's narrow discount to asset valuation makes it a relatively unappealing investment at current prices , especially given the risk that our projections could be on the aggressive side . '' chairman krebs says 0 the california pension fund is getting a bargain price that would n't have been offered to others . in other words : the real estate has a higher value than the pending deal suggests . since most of the unit 's real estate is in california , the pension fund will be a useful political ally in a state where development is often held hostage to zoning boards . and , as mr. zell says , with itel and o&y on the unit 's board , the real estate will be run by `` a very unusual group '' to say the least . it is possible then that santa fe 's real estate -- even in a state imperiled by earthquakes -- could , one day , fetch a king 's ransom . but as drexel analyst linda dunn notes , its properties will be developed over 15 to 20 years . so despite wall street 's rosy talk of quickly `` maximizing values , '' holders could be in for a long wait . santa fe pacific -lrb- nyse ; symbol : sfx -rrb- business : railroad , natural resources and real estate year ended dec. 31 , 1988 : revenue : $ 3.14 billion net loss : $ 46.5 million ; 30 cents a share third quarter , sept. 30 , 1989 : net income : 21 cents a share vs. net loss of $ 4.11 a share average daily trading volume : 344,354 shares