since chalk first touched slate , schoolchildren have wanted to know : what 's on the test ? these days , students can often find the answer in test-coaching workbooks and worksheets 0 their teachers give them in the weeks prior to taking standardized achievement tests . the mathematics section of the widely used california achievement test asks fifth graders : `` what is another name for the roman numeral ix ? '' it also asks them to add two-sevenths and three-sevenths . worksheets in a test-practice kit called learning materials , sold to schools across the country by macmillan\/mcgraw-hill school publishing co. , contain the same questions . in many other instances , there is almost no difference between the real test and learning materials . what 's more , the test and learning materials are both produced by the same company , macmillan\/mcgraw-hill , a joint venture of mcgraw-hill inc. and macmillan 's parent , britain 's maxwell communication corp . close parallels between tests and practice tests are common , some educators and researchers say 0 . test-preparation booklets , software and worksheets are a booming publishing subindustry . but some practice products are so similar to the tests themselves that critics say 0 they represent a form of school-sponsored cheating . `` if i took -lcb- these preparation booklets -rcb- into my classroom , i 'd have a hard time justifying to my students and parents that it was n't cheating , '' says john kaminski , a traverse city , mich. , teacher who has studied test coaching . he and other critics say 0 such coaching aids can defeat the purpose of standardized tests , which is to gauge learning progress . `` it 's as if france decided to give only french history questions to students in a european history class , and when everybody aces the test , they say 0 their kids are good in european history , '' says john cannell , an albuquerque , n.m. , psychiatrist and founder of an educational research organization , friends for education , which has studied standardized testing . standardized achievement tests are given about 10 million times a year across the country to students generally from kindergarten through eighth grade . the most widely used of these tests are macmillan\/mcgraw 's cat and comprehensive test of basic skills ; the iowa test of basic skills , by houghton mifflin co. ; and harcourt brace jovanovich inc. 's metropolitan achievement test and stanford achievement test . sales figures of the test-prep materials are n't known , but their reach into schools is significant . in arizona , california , florida , louisiana , maryland , new jersey , south carolina and texas , educators say 0 they are common classroom tools . macmillan\/mcgraw says 0 `` well over 10 million '' of its scoring high test-preparation books have been sold since their introduction 10 years ago , with most sales in the last five years . about 20,000 sets of learning materials teachers ' binders have also been sold in the past four years . the materials in each set reach about 90 students . scoring high and learning materials are the best-selling preparation tests . michael kean , director of marketing for ctb macmillan\/mcgraw , the macmillan\/mcgraw division that publishes learning materials , says 0 it is n't aimed at improving test scores . he also asserted that exact questions were n't replicated . when referred to the questions that matched , he said 0 it was coincidental . mr. kaminski , the schoolteacher , and william mehrens , a michigan state university education professor , concluded in a study last june that cat test versions of scoring high and learning materials should n't be used in the classroom because of their similarity to the actual test . they devised a 69-point scale -- awarding one point for each subskill measured on the cat test -- to rate the closeness of test preparatives to the fifth-grade cat . because many of these subskills -- the symmetry of geometrical figures , metric measurement of volume , or pie and bar graphs , for example -- are only a small part of the total fifth-grade curriculum , mr. kaminski says 0 , the preparation kits would n't replicate too many , if their real intent was general instruction or even general familiarization with test procedures . but learning materials matched on 66.5 of 69 subskills . scoring high matched on 64.5 . in cat sections where students ' knowledge of two-letter consonant sounds is tested , the authors noted that scoring high concentrated on the same sounds that the test does -- to the exclusion of other sounds that fifth graders should know . learning materials for the fifth-grade contains at least a dozen examples of exact matches or close parallels to test items . rick brownell , senior editor of scoring high , says that messrs. kaminski and mehrens are ignoring `` the need 0 students have for becoming familiar with tests and testing format . '' he said 0 authors of scoring high `` scrupulously avoid '' replicating exact questions , but he does n't deny that some items are similar . when scoring high first came out in 1979 , it was a publication of random house . mcgraw-hill was outraged . in a 1985 advisory to educators , mcgraw-hill said 0 scoring high should n't be used because it represented a `` parallel form '' of the cat and ctbs tests . but in 1988 , mcgraw-hill purchased the random house unit that publishes scoring high , which later became part of macmillan\/mcgraw . messrs. brownell and kean say 0 they are unaware of any efforts by mcgraw-hill to modify or discontinue scoring high .