international business machines corp. will announce on tuesday a slew of software products aimed at eliminating some of the major problems involved in computerizing manufacturing operations , industry executives said 0 . many plant floors currently resemble a tower of babel , with computers , robots and machine tools that generally speak their own language and have trouble talking to each other . as a result , if a problem develops on a production line , it is unlikely 0 some supervisor sitting in front of a personal computer or workstation will know about it or be able to correct it . so ibm will be announcing more than 50 products that will be aimed at letting even the dumbest machine tool talk to the smartest mainframe , or anything in between . in an unusual display of openness , ibm also will be helping customers tie together operations that include lots of equipment made by ibm 's competitors . in addition , the executives said 0 ibm will be offering programming tools designed to let anyone working on a factory floor write ad-hoc software , for instance , 0 to do statistical analysis that would pinpoint a problem on a manufacturing line . in armonk , n.y. , an ibm spokeswoman confirmed that ibm executives will be announcing some computer-integrated-manufacturing plans next week but declined to elaborate . the industry executives said that , as usual with such broad announcements from ibm , this one will be part reality and part strategy . so it will take many quarters for ibm to roll out all the products that customers need , and it will take years for customers to integrate the products into their operations . also as usual , the products will appeal mostly to heavy users of ibm equipment , at least initially . still , consultants and industry executives said 0 the products could help make manufacturing operations more efficient , and provide a boost to the computer-integrated-manufacturing market -- a market that yankee group , a research firm , has said 0 may double to $ 40 billion by 1993 . `` this is a step in the right direction , '' said martin piszczalski , a yankee group analyst . he added , though , that `` a lot of this is intentions ... . we 'll have to wait and see '' how the plan develops . the announcements also should help ibm go on the offensive against digital equipment corp. on the plant floor . while ibm has traditionally dominated the market for computers on the business side of manufacturing operations and has done well in the market for design tools , digital has dominated computerized manufacturing . hewlett-packard co. also has begun to gain share in the whole computer-integrated-manufacturing arena . ibm will face an uphill climb against digital , given digital 's reputation for being better than ibm at hooking together different manufacturers ' computers . in addition , hewlett-packard , while a much smaller player , has made a big commitment to the sorts of industry standards that facilitate those hookups and could give ibm some problems . both can be expected to go after the market aggressively : gartner group inc. , a research firm , estimated 0 the digital gets 30 % of its revenue from the manufacturing market , and hewlett-packard gets 50 % . ibm , which gartner group said 0 generates 22 % of its revenue in this market , should be able to take advantage of its loyal following among buyers of equipment . that is because many companies will standardize on certain types of equipment as the various parts of the manufacturing market merge , and ibm is the biggest player . but much will depend on how quickly ibm can move . the whole idea of computer-integrated manufacturing , cim , seems to be making a comeback after losing a little luster over the past couple of years when it became apparent that it was n't a panacea that would make u.s. plants more efficient and banish foreign competition . erik keller , a gartner group analyst , said 0 organizational changes may still be required to really take advantage of cim 's capabilities -- someone on the shop floor may not like having someone in an office using a personal computer to look over his shoulder , for instance , and may be able to prevent that from happening . but he said 0 a system such as ibm 's should help significantly . in making polyethylene sheets out of plastic chips , for instance , a chip sometimes does n't melt , gets caught in the machinery and creates a run in the sheets . that can be expensive , because the problem may not be noticed for a while , and the sheets are typically thrown away . but mr. keller said that , if computers can be integrated into the process , they could alert an operator as soon as the problem occurred . they could also check through the orders on file to find a customer that was willing to accept a lower grade of polyethylene . the computer would let the machine run just until that order was filled , eliminating waste . this sort of improved link figures to eventually become a significant weapon for some companies . companies might be able to tell salespeople daily , for instance , about idle equipment , so they could offer discounts on whatever that equipment produces . salespeople also could get a precise reading on when products could be delivered -- in much the same way that federal express has marketed its ability to tell exactly where a package is in the delivery system .