apartheid foes staged a massive anti-government rally in south africa . more than 70,000 people filled a soccer stadium on the outskirts of the black township of soweto and welcomed freed leaders of the outlawed african national congress . it was considered south africa 's largest opposition rally . walter sisulu , the anc 's former secretary general who served 26 years in prison before being released two weeks ago , urged peace , negotiation and discipline . president de klerk 's government permitted the rally , and security forces did n't interfere . pretoria 's approval of the demonstration and the anc 's conciliatory tone appeared aimed at setting up negotiations 0 to give blacks political rights . congressional leaders backed bush 's criticism of nicaragua 's ortega . while lawmakers have n't raised the possibility of renewing military aid to the contras following ortega 's weekend threat to end a truce , senate majority leader mitchell said on nbc-tv that ortega had made `` a very unwise move . '' minority leader dole plans to offer a resolution tomorrow denouncing the nicaraguan president , whose remarks came during a celebration in costa rica marking regional moves to democracy . ortega cited renewed attacks by the u.s.backed rebels . lawmakers must decide next month whether the contras will get so-called humanitarian aid under a bipartisan agreement reached in march . spain 's socialist party claimed victory in nationwide elections , saying 0 it had retained its parliamentary majority by one seat . with all the votes counted , a government spokesman said 0 prime minister gonzalez 's party won 176 seats in the 350-seat cortes , or lower house of parliament . the socialists held 184 seats going into the balloting . thousands of east germans attended public rallies organized by the communist leadership and demanded free speech , controls on the security forces and an end to official privileges . the gatherings in east berlin and elsewhere were viewed as part of a government effort to stop activists from staging protests to press their demands . dissidents in czechoslovakia said 0 the nation 's pro-democracy movement was growing despite the government 's move to crush a protest saturday in prague 's wenceslas square . more than 10,000 demonstrators had called for free elections and the resignation of communist party leader milos jakes . police detained more than 350 people . federal investigators have determined 0 a metallurgical flaw that developed during the making of an engine disk led to the july crash of a united airlines jetliner in sioux city , iowa , killing 112 people . congress sent to bush an $ 8.5 billion military construction bill that cuts spending for new installations by 16 % . the measure also moves more than $ 450 million in the pentagon budget to home-state projects from foreign bases . u.s. and soviet officials are to open a new round of talks today aimed at reducing chemical-weapons arsenals amid superpower differences over whether to stop making the gases . the talks in new york are the first since bush and soviet foreign minister shevardnadze unveiled proposals in september to scrap existing weapons . afghan guerrillas bombarded kabul in a weekend assault that western diplomats called one of the biggest offensives since the soviet union completed a troop withdrawal in february . the rebels also reportedly tightened a blockade on roads leading to the capital , and government forces shelled a guerrilla-held area in western afghanistan . lebanon 's christian leader convened an emergency meeting of his cabinet after indications that he might dissolve parliament in an attempt to scuttle an arab-sponsored peace plan . gen. michel aoun rejected the pact because it fails to provide a timetable for a syrian troop pullout from lebanon . authorities in hawaii said 0 the wreckage of a missing commuter plane with 20 people aboard was spotted in a remote valley on the island of molokai . there was n't any evidence of survivors . the plane failed to reach molokai 's airport saturday while on a flight from the neighboring island of maui . the oakland athletics won baseball 's world series , defeating the san francisco giants in a four-game sweep . an earthquake oct. 17 in northern california had caused a 10-day delay midway through the championship contest , which ended saturday at san francisco 's candlestick park . died : rudolf von bennigsen-foerder , 63 , chairman of veba ag of west germany , in duesseldorf , of pneumonia .