we 're about to see if advertising works . hard on the heels of friday 's 190-point stock-market plunge and the uncertainty that 's followed , a few big brokerage firms are rolling out new ads trumpeting a familiar message : keep on investing , the market 's just fine . their mission is to keep clients from fleeing the market , as individual investors did in droves after the crash in october just days after the 1987 crash , major brokerage firms rushed out ads to calm investors . this time around , they 're moving even faster . painewebber inc. filmed a new television commercial at 4 p.m. edt yesterday and had it on the air by last night . fidelity investments placed new ads in newspapers yesterday , and wrote another new ad appearing today . shearson lehman hutton inc. by yesterday afternoon had already written new tv ads . it considered running them during tomorrow night 's world series broadcast but decided not to when the market recovered yesterday . other brokerage firms , including merrill lynch & co. , were plotting out potential new ad strategies . the brokerage firms learned a lesson the last time around , when frightened investors flooded the phone lines and fled the market in a panic . this time , the firms were ready . fidelity , for example , prepared ads several months ago in case of a market plunge . when the market went into its free fall friday afternoon , the investment firm ordered full pages in the monday editions of half a dozen newspapers . the ads touted fidelity 's automated 800-number beneath the huge headline , `` fidelity is ready for your call . '' a fidelity spokesman says 0 the 800-line , which already was operating but which many clients did n't know about , received about double the usual volume of calls over the weekend . `` a lot of investor confidence comes from the fact that they can speak to us , '' he says . `` to maintain that dialogue is absolutely crucial . it would have been too late 0 to think about on friday . we had to think about it ahead of time . '' today 's fidelity ad goes a step further , encouraging investors to stay in the market or even to plunge in with fidelity . underneath the headline `` diversification , '' it counsels , `` based on the events of the past week , all investors need to know 0 their portfolios are balanced to help protect them against the market 's volatility . '' it goes on to plug a few diversified fidelity funds by name . painewebber also was able to gear up quickly thanks to the 1987 crash . in the aftermath of the 1987 debacle , the brokerage firm began taping commercials in-house , ultimately getting its timing down fast enough to tape a commercial after the market closed and rush it on the air that night . it also negotiated an arrangement with cable news network under which cnn would agree to air its last-minute creations . the new painewebber commercial , created with ad agency saatchi & saatchi co. , features mary farrell , one of the firm 's most visible investment strategists , sounding particularly bullish . taped just as the market closed yesterday , it offers ms. farrell advising , `` we view the market here as going through a relatively normal cycle ... . we continue to feel that the stock market is still the place 0 to be for long-term appreciation . '' the spot was scheduled to appear three times on cnn last night . painewebber considered an even harder sell , recommending specific stocks . instead , it settled on just urging the clients who are its lifeline to keep that money in the market . `` we 're saying 0 the worst thing that anyone can do is to see the market go down and dump everything , which just drives the prices down further , '' says john lampe , painewebber 's director of advertising . `` if you owned it and liked it friday , the true value has n't changed . '' he adds , `` this is n't 1987 revisited . '' with the market fluctuating and then closing up more than 88 points yesterday , investment firms had to constantly revise their approach . at shearson lehman , executives created potential new commercials friday night and throughout the weekend , then had to regroup yesterday afternoon . the plan had been to make one of shearson 's easy-to-film , black-and-white `` where we stand '' commercials , which have been running occasionally in response to news events since 1985 . the ad would have run during the world series tomorrow , replacing the debut commercial of shearson 's new ad campaign , `` leadership by example . '' but in a meeting after the market closed yesterday , shearson executives decided not to go ahead with the stock-market ad . `` we do n't think at this point 0 anything needs to be said . the market seems to be straightening out ; we 're taking a wait-and-see attitude , '' says cathleen b. stewart , executive vice president of marketing . in any case , the brokerage firms are clearly moving faster to create new ads than they did in the fall of 1987 . but it remains to be seen whether their ads will be any more effective . in 1987 , despite a barrage of ads from most of the major investment firms , individuals ran from the market en masse . now the firms must try their hardest to prove that advertising can work this time around . ad notes ... . arnold advertising : edward eskandarian , former chairman of della femina , mcnamee wcrs\/boston , reached an agreement in principle to acquire a majority stake in arnold advertising , a small boston shop . terms were n't disclosed . mr. eskandarian , who resigned his della femina post in september , becomes chairman and chief executive of arnold . john verret , the agency 's president and chief executive , will retain the title of president . separately , mcdonald 's corp. , oak brook , ill. , named arnold to handle its estimated $ 4 million cooperative ad account for the hartford , conn. , area . that account had been handled by della femina , mcnamee wcrs . education ads : a 142-page ad supplement to business week 's special `` corporate elite '' issue calls on business leaders to use their clout to help solve the nation 's education crisis . the supplement , the largest ever for the magazine , includes ads from 52 corporate advertisers and kicks off a two-year business week initiative on education . the magazine will distribute 10 % of the gross revenues from the supplement as grants to innovative teachers .