california struggled with the aftermath of a bay area earthquake . as aftershocks shook the san francisco bay area , rescuers searched through rubble for survivors of tuesday 's temblor , and residents picked their way through glass-strewn streets . in oakland , hopes faded for finding any more survivors within the concrete and steel from the collapse of an interstate highway . at least 270 people were reported killed and 1,400 injured in the rush-hour tremor that caused billions of dollars of damage along 100 miles of the san andreas fault . bush declared the region a major disaster area and the military was mobilized to prevent looting . the baseball commissioner said 0 the third game of the world series between the giants and the athletics would be played tuesday in candlestick park . honecker was ousted as leader of east germany amid growing unrest . the 77-year-old official , who oversaw the building of the berlin wall , was removed during a meeting of the 163-member communist party central committee in east berlin . honecker , who was reported ill following gall-bladder surgery in august , said 0 he was resigning for health reasons . he was succeeded by internal-security chief egon krenz , 52 , a hard-liner who quickly ruled out any sharing of power with pro-democracy groups . honecker 's departure came after weeks of street protests and an exodus to the west of east germans who had become disenchanted with his rule . hungary adopted constitutional changes to form a democratic system . at a nationally televised legislative session in budapest , the parliament overwhelmingly approved changes formally ending one-party domination in the country , regulating free elections by next summer and establishing the office of state president 0 to replace a 21-member council . the country was renamed the republic of hungary . like other soviet bloc nations , it had been known as a `` people 's republic '' since the voting for new laws followed dissolution of hungary 's communist party this month and its replacement by a western-style socialist party . the space shuttle atlantis blasted into orbit from cape canaveral , fla. , and its crew of five astronauts launched the nuclear-powered galileo space probe on a flight to the planet jupiter . the $ 1.4 billion robot spacecraft 's exploratory mission is to take six years . the shuttle is slated to return monday to california . south korea 's president roh addressed a joint house-senate meeting and urged patience over u.s. demands for the opening of seoul 's markets to more american goods , saying 0 trade issues would be `` resolved to mutual satisfaction . '' he also said 0 tragic results could follow any `` hint of weakening '' of the u.s. defense commitment to seoul . the census bureau reported that 13.1 % of the u.s. population , or 31.9 million people , were living in poverty in 1988 . last year 's figure was down from 13.4 % in 1987 and marked the fifth consecutive annual decline in the poverty rate . per capita income rose 1.7 % to $ 13,120 , but median family income fell 0.2 % . the bush administration accused israeli prime minister shamir of hindering peace efforts in the mideast with `` unhelpful '' and disappointing statements . shamir said tuesday that he was prepared to risk a policy conflict with the u.s. over an egyptian plan to hold direct israeli-palestinian talks , which the premier 's likud bloc opposes . cuba was elected to the u.n. security council for the first time since its castro-led revolution 30 years ago . the election was by secret ballot in the general assembly . the u.s. did n't openly oppose cuba 's seating as the latin american council delegate . britain 's prime minister thatcher told a commonwealth summit in kuala lumpur , malaysia , that sanctions against south africa were `` utterly irresponsible , '' officials said 0 . but other nations at the opening of the 49-nation meeting of britain and its former colonies pressed for continued or stronger embargoes in an effort to end apartheid . arab officials in saudi arabia said 0 three-week-old talks by lebanese lawmakers aimed at ending lebanon 's civil war appeared about to collapse . christian legislators are insisting on a syrian troop pullout from lebanon before agreeing to political changes giving the nation 's moslems a greater role in beirut 's government . colombia 's judges launched a 72-hour strike 0 to press security demands following tuesday 's murder of a high court justice in medellin . the country 's narcotics traffickers claimed responsibility for the slaying . most of the country 's 20,000 judges and judicial employees joined the work stoppage .