if there 's somethin' strange in your neighborhood ... if there 's something ' weird and it do n't look good . who ya gon na call ? for starters , some people call ed and lorraine warren . when it comes to busting ghosts , the monroe , conn. , couple are perfect demons . they claim to have busted spirits , poltergeists and other spooks in hundreds of houses around the country . they say 0 they now get three or four `` legitimate '' calls a week from people harried by haunts . `` i firmly believe in angels , devils and ghosts , '' says mr. warren , whose business card identifies him as a `` demonologist . '' if psychics do n't work , but your house still seems haunted , you can call any one of a swelling band of skeptics such as richard busch . a professional magician and musician , he heads the pittsburgh branch of the committee for the scientific investigation of the paranormal . mr. busch says 0 there is a scientific explanation for all haunts , and he can even tell you how to encourage the spirits . `` all 0 you have to do is eat a big pizza , and then go to bed , '' he says . `` you 'll have weird dreams , too . '' either way , the ghostbusting business is going like gangbusters . tales of haunts and horrors are proliferating beyond the nation 's elm streets and amityvilles . `` i get calls nearly every day from people who have ghosts in their house , '' says raymond hyman , a skeptical psychology professor at the university of oregon . in a public opinion poll published in the october issue of parents magazine , a third of those queried said 0 they believe that ghosts or spirits make themselves known to people . `` the movies , the books , the tabloids -- even nancy reagan is boosting this stuff , '' says paul kurtz , a philosophy professor at the state university of new york at buffalo , who heads the committee for the scientific investigation of the paranormal . the committee , formed in 1967 , now has 60 chapters around the world . the spirits , of course , could hardly care less whether people do or do n't believe in them . they do n't even give a nod to human sensibilities by celebrating halloween . for the spooks it 's just another day of ectoplasmic business as usual , ghostbusters say 0 ; the holiday seems to occasion no unusual number of ghost reports . one of the busiest ghostbusters is robert baker , a 68-year-old semi-retired university of kentucky psychology professor whose bushy gray eyebrows arch at the mere mention of a ghost . mr. baker says 0 he has personally bested more than 50 haunts , from aliens to poltergeists . mr. baker heads the kentucky association of science educators and skeptics . like hollywood 's ghostbusters , kentucky 's stand ready to roll when haunts get out of hand . but they do n't careen around in an old cadillac , wear funny suits or blast away at slimy spirits . mr. baker drives a 1987 chevy and usually wears a tweed jacket on his ghostbusting forays . `` i 've never met a ghost that could n't be explained away by perfectly natural means , '' he says . when a louisville woman complained that a ghost was haunting her attic , mr. baker discovered a rat dragging a trap across the rafters . a foul-smelling demon supposedly plagued a house in mannington , ky . mr. baker found an opening under the house that led to a fume-filled coal mine . when the weather cools , mr. baker says 0 , hobos often hole up in abandoned houses . `` people see activity in there , and the next thing 0 you know , you 've got a haunting , '' he says . on a recent afternoon , mr. baker and a reporter go ghost-busting , visiting kathleen stinnett , a lexington woman who has phoned the university of kentucky to report mysterious happenings in her house . mrs. stinnett says 0 she never believed in ghosts before , but lately her vacuum cleaner turned itself on , a telephone flew off its stand , doors slammed inexplicably , and she heard footsteps in her empty kitchen . `` i was doing the laundry and nearly broke my neck running upstairs to see who was there , and it was nobody , '' she says , eyes wide at the recollection . mr. baker hears her out , pokes around a bit , asks a few questions and proposes some explanations . of the self-starting vacuum cleaner , he says : `` could be cuddles , -lcb- mrs. stinnett 's dog -rcb- . '' the flying telephone : `` you tangle the base cord around a chair leg , and the receiver does seem to fly off . '' the ghostly footsteps : `` interstate 64 is a block away , and heavy traffic can sure set a house to vibrating . '' `` i 'm not sure 0 he 's explained everything , '' mrs. stinnett says grudgingly . `` there are some things that have gone on here that nobody can explain , '' she says . mr. baker promises to return if the haunting continues . for especially stubborn haunts , mr. baker carries a secret weapon , a vial of cornstarch . `` i tell people 0 it 's the groundup bones of saints , '' he says . `` i sprinkle a little around and tell the demons to leave . it 's reassuring , and it usually works . '' oregon 's mr. hyman has investigated claims of flying cats , apparitions and bouncing chandeliers and has come up with a plausible explanation , he says , for every one . `` invariably , '' he says , `` eyewitnesses are untrustworthy . '' two years ago , a canadian reader bet omni magazine $ 1,000 that it could n't debunk the uncanny goings-on in `` the oregon vortex , '' a former indian burial ground in southern oregon . to viewers from a distance , visitors to the spot seemed to shrink disproportionately , relative to the background . the magazine called in mr. hyman as a consultant . he showed up with a carpenter 's level , carefully measured every surface and showed how the apparent shrinkage was caused by the perspective . `` a very striking illusion , '' mr. hyman says now , his voice dripping with skepticism , `` but an illusion nevertheless . '' the canadian wound up writing a check . the rev. alphonsus trabold , a theology professor and exorcism expert at st. bonaventure university in olean , n.y. , frequently is asked to exorcise unruly spirits , and he often obliges . `` on certain occasions a spirit could be earthbound and make itself known , '' he says . `` it happens . '' father trabold often uses what he calls `` a therapeutic exorcism '' : a few prayers and an admonition to the spirit to leave . `` if the person believes 0 there 's an evil spirit , you ask it to be gone , '' he says . `` the suggestion itself may do the healing . '' but sometimes more energetic attacks are required . to wrestle with a demon in a house owned by a litchfield , conn. , woman , the warrens recently called in an exorcist , the rev. robert mckenna , a dissident clergyman who hews to the catholic church 's old latin liturgy . i attend , and so does a television crew from new york city . mr. warren pronounces the litchfield case `` your typical demonic infestation . '' a scottish dwarf built the small red house 110 years ago and now his demonic ghost haunts it , mr. warren says 0 . the owner , who begs anonymity , asserts that the dwarf , appearing as a dark shadow , has manhandled her , tossing her around the living room and yanking out a hank of hair . two previous exorcisms have failed . `` this is a very tenacious ghost , '' mr. warren says darkly . father mckenna moves through the house praying in latin , urging the demon to split . suddenly the woman begins swaying and then writhing . `` she 's being attacked by the demon , '' mrs. warren stagewhispers as the priest sprinkles holy water over the squirming woman , and the television camera grinds . a half-hour later , the woman is smiling and chatting ; the demon seems to have gone . but mr. warren says 0 the woman has `` psychic burns '' on her back from the confrontation . she declines to show them . `` this was an invisible , powerful force that 's almost impossible 0 for a layman to contemplate , '' mr. warren says solemnly as the ghostbusting entourage packs up to leave . `` this time though , '' he says , `` i think 0 we got it . '' lyrics from `` ghostbusters '' by ray s. parker jr. 1984 by golden torch music corp. -lrb- ascap -rrb- and raydiola music -lrb- ascap -rrb- . all administrative rights for the u.s. jointly controlled by both companies . international copyright secured . made in usa . all rights reserved . reprinted by permission .