when china opened its doors to foreign investors in 1979 , toy makers from hong kong were among the first 0 to march in . today , with about 75 % of the companies ' products being made in china , the chairman of the hong kong toys council , dennis ting , has suggested a new sourcing label : `` made in china by hong kong companies . '' the toy makers were pushed across the border by rising labor and land costs in the british colony . but in the wake of the shootings in beijing on june 4 , the hong kong toy industry is worrying about its strong dependence on china . although the manufacturers stress that production has n't been affected by china 's political turmoil , they are looking for additional sites . the toy makers , and their foreign buyers , cite uncertainty about china 's economic and political policies . `` nobody wants to have all his eggs in one basket , '' says david yeh , chairman and chief executive officer of international matchbox group ltd . indeed , matchbox and other leading hong kong toy makers were setting up factories in southeast asia , especially in thailand , long before the massacre . their steps were partly prompted by concern over a deterioration of business conditions in southern china . by diversifying supply sources , the toy makers do n't intend to withdraw from china , manufacturers and foreign buyers say 0 . it would n't be easy to duplicate quickly the manufacturing capacity built up in southern china during the past decade . a supply of cheap labor and the access to hong kong 's port , airport , banks and support industries , such as printing companies , have made china 's guangdong province a premier manufacturing site . `` south china is the most competitive source of toys in the world , '' says henry hu , executive director of wah shing toys consolidated ltd . hong kong trade figures illustrate the toy makers ' reliance on factories across the border . in 1988 , exports of domestically produced toys and games fell 19 % from 1987 , to hk$ 10.05 billion -lrb- us$ 1.29 billion -rrb- . but re-exports , mainly from china , jumped 75 % , to hk$ 15.92 billion . in 1989 's first seven months , domestic exports fell 29 % , to hk$ 3.87 billion , while re-exports rose 56 % , to hk$ 11.28 billion . manufacturers say 0 there is no immediate substitute for southern china , where an estimated 120,000 people are employed by the toy industry . `` for the next few years , like it or not , china is going to be the main supplier , '' says edmund young , vice president of perfecta enterprises ltd. , one of the first big hong kong toy makers 0 to move across the border . in the meantime , as manufacturers and buyers seek new sites , they are focusing mainly on southeast asia . several big companies have established manufacturing joint ventures in thailand , including matchbox , wah shing and kader industrial co. , the toy manufacturer headed by mr. ting . malaysia , the philippines and indonesia also are being studied . with the european community set to remove its internal trade barriers in 1992 , several hong kong companies are beginning to consider spain , portugal and greece as possible manufacturing sites . worries about china came just as hong kong 's toy industry was recovering from a 1987 sales slump and bankruptcy filings by two major u.s. companies , worlds of wonder inc. and coleco industries inc . hong kong manufacturers say 0 large debt writeoffs and other financial problems resulting from the 1987 difficulties chastened the local industry , causing it to tighten credit policies and financial management . the industry regards last year and this year as a period of recovery that will lead to improved results . still , they long for a `` mega-hit '' toy to excite retail sales in the u.s. , hong kong 's biggest market for toys and games . the closest thing 0 the colony 's companies have to a u.s. mega-hit this year is the teenage mutant ninja turtles series of action figures manufactured by playmates holdings ltd . introduced in mid-1988 , the 15-centimeter-tall plastic turtles are based on an american comic book and television series . paul kwan , managing director of playmates , says 0 10 million ninja turtles have been sold , placing the reptilian warriors among the 10 biggest-selling toys in the u.s. . should sales continue to be strong through the christmas season , which accounts for about 60 % of u.s. retail toy sales , mr. kwan said 0 the ninja turtles could make 1989 a record sales year for playmates . other hong kong manufacturers expect their results to improve only slightly this year from 1988 . besides the lack of a fast-selling product , they cite the continued dominance of the u.s. market by nintendo entertainment system , an expensive video game made by nintendo co. of japan . nintendo buyers have little money left to spend on other products . many of the toy makers ' problems started well before june 4 as a result of overstrained infrastructure and beijing 's austerity programs launched late last year . toy makers complain that electricity in guangdong has been provided only three days a week in recent months , down from five days a week , as the province 's rapid industrialization has outstripped its generating capacity . manufacturers are upgrading standby power plants . bank credit for china investments all but dried up following june 4 . also , concern exists that the harder-line beijing leadership will tighten its control of guangdong , which has been the main laboratory for the open-door policy and economic reforms . but , toy manufacturers and other industrialists say 0 beijing will be restrained from tightening controls on export-oriented southern china . they say 0 china 's trade deficit is widening and the country is too short of foreign exchange for it to hamper production in guangdong . `` the chinese leaders have to decide whether they want control or whether the want exports , '' says mr. kwan of playmates .