the manville personal injury settlement trust said 0 it is considering several ways 0 to ease a liquidity crunch that could include the sale of manville corp. to a third party . in a filing with the securities and exchange commission , the majority holder of manville acknowledged that the cash portion of its initial funding of $ 765 million will be depleted next year , and that alternative sources of funds will be necessary to meet its obligations . the trust , which was created as part of manville 's bankruptcy-law reorganization to compensate victims of asbestos-related diseases , ultimately expects to receive $ 2.5 billion from manville , but its cash flow from investments has so far lagged behind its payments to victims . spokespersons for both the trust and the company refused to comment on whether any talks with a possible acquirer of manville had actually taken place . the trust is considering a sale of its manville holdings , but manville has the right of first refusal on any sales of its stock held by the trust . manville , a forest and building products concern , has offered to pay the trust $ 500 million for a majority of manville 's convertible preferred stock . manville and the trust are discussing the offer , but no decision has been made . the filing also said 0 the trust is considering a sale of manville securities in the open market ; an extraordinary dividend on the common stock ; or a recapitalization of manville . the soviet union 's jobless rate is soaring to 27 % in some areas , pravda said 0 . it said 0 the situation is caused by efforts to streamline bloated factory payrolls . unemployment has reached 27.6 % in azerbaijan , 25.7 % in tadzhikistan , 22.8 % in uzbekistan , 18.8 % in turkmenia , 18 % in armenia and 16.3 % in kirgizia , the communist party newspaper said 0 . all are non-russian republics along the southern border of the soviet union , and all but kirgizia have reported rioting in the past six months . the newspaper said 0 it is past time 0 for the soviet union to create unemployment insurance and retraining programs like those of the west . pravda gave no estimate for overall unemployment but said 0 an `` association of the unemployed '' has cropped up that says 0 the number of jobless is 23 million soviets , or 17 % of the work force . an 11-week dispute involving australia 's 1,640 domestic pilots has slashed airline earnings and crippled much of the continent 's tourist industry . `` the only people who are flying are those who have to , '' said frank moore , chairman of the australian tourist industry association . he added : `` how is a travel agent going to sell a holiday when he can not guarantee a return flight ? '' transport giant tnt , which owns half of one of the country 's two major domestic carriers , said 0 the cost of the dispute had been heavy , cutting tnt 's profits 70 % to $ 12 million in the three months to sept. 30 . brazilian financier naji nahas , who was arrested on monday after 102 days in hiding , is likely to be interrogated next week by the brazilian judiciary . mr. nahas , who single-handedly provoked a one-day closure of brazil 's stock markets in june when he failed to honor a debt of $ 31.1 million owed to his brokers , yesterday blamed his predicament on the president of the sao paulo stock exchange ; a few days before mr. nahas 's failure , the exchange raised the required margin on stock-margin transactions . china 's parliament ousted two hong kong residents from a panel drafting a new constitution for the colony . the two , szeto wah and martin lee , were deemed unfit because they had condemned china 's crackdown on its pro-democracy movement . the committee is formulating hong kong 's constitution for when it reverts to chinese control in 1997 , and chinese lawmakers said 0 the two can only return if they `` abandon their antagonistic stand against the chinese government and their attempt to nullify the sino-british joint declaration on hong kong . '' nuclear reactor for israel ? israeli officials confirmed that energy minister moshe shahal and his canadian counterpart , jake epp , discussed a possible israeli purchase of a $ 1.1 billion canadian nuclear reactor for producing electricity . however , a canadian embassy official in tel aviv said that canada was unlikely to sell the candu heavy-water reactor to israel since israel has n't signed the nuclear non-proliferation treaty . israel has been accused in the past of using subterfuge to seek elements needed to develop nuclear weapons . the south korean government is signing a protocol today establishing formal diplomatic relations with poland . the two are also signing a trade agreement . south korean government officials said 0 they do n't expect that seoul can loan money to warsaw , but it can `` offer experience . '' poland is the second communist nation 0 to recognize the seoul government ; south korea established diplomatic relations with hungary in february 1989 . venezuela will hold a debt-equity auction friday , with 32 potential bidders participating . earlier this year , venezuela announced 0 it was opening up debt-equity swaps to foreign investors but said 0 the program would be limited to a net disbursement of $ 600 million a year . friday 's auction will be limited to $ 150 million disbursed by the central bank to potential investors . the office of foreign investment has authorized some $ 1.78 billion worth of investment proposals , said 0 edwin perozo , superintendent of foreign investment . most of the proposals are in tourism , basic industry and fishery and agro-industry projects , he said 0 . under the debt-equity program , potential investors will submit sealed bids on the percentage of discount 0 they are willing to purchase the debt at , and the bids will be allocated based on these discount offers . the venezuelan central bank set a 30 % floor on the bidding . a song by american singer tracy chapman praising jailed black leader nelson mandela was banned from south african state radio and television . the south african broadcasting corp. said 0 the song `` freedom now '' was `` undesirable for broadcasting . '' ... britain 's house of commons passed a law that will force english soccer fans to carry identity cards to enter stadiums . the `` anti-hooligan '' law , which would deprive troublemakers of cards , must be ratified by the house of lords and is expected to become effective early next year .