disaster states are n't jumping to raise taxes for relief and recovery . not yet , anyway . just after hurricane hugo battered south carolina , some officials talked of perhaps adding a penny to the state gasoline tax or raising property taxes . gov. campbell responded , `` they 're mentioning rope when there 's been a hanging in the family . '' a spokesman says 0 the governor believes 0 he can avoid increases by relying on federal aid and shifting funds in state programs . still , hugo 's impact may revive unsuccessful proposals to give local governments authority to levy sales taxes . a spokesman for north carolina gov. martin says 0 hugo has n't prompted proposals for state or local increases . california , where earthquake damage may top $ 5 billion , plans a special legislative session . property-tax relief is likely . legislators are talking about temporary rises in sales or gasoline taxes , although gov. deukmejian says 0 they should be a last resort . needs are n't clear , and the state constitution makes increasing taxes and spending very difficult . but some legislators think 0 the time may be ripe to revise the constitution . the irs will pay if its error burdens you with bank charges . policy statement p-5-39 sets out terms . as a result of an erroneous irs levy on a bank account , a taxpayer may incur administrative and overdraft charges . if the irs admits its error and the charges have been paid , it will reimburse a taxpayer who has n't refused to give timely answers to irs inquiries or has n't contributed to continuing or compounding the error . the irs recently amended the policy to cover stop-payment charges for checks lost by the irs . if the irs asks for and gets a replacement for a check that it concedes 0 it lost in processing , it will reimburse the taxpayer for the stop-payment charge on the original . reimbursement claims must be filed with the irs district or service-center director within a year after the expense accrues . if the irs seeks late-payment interest because of the lost check , you should request interest abatement , publisher prentice hall notes 0 . just five acres more are all 0 we need to feel really at home , they say 0 . a couple 0 we 'll call the blandings spent nearly $ 800,000 on a 15-acre plot and main home and have an old $ 175,000 mortgage exempt from the new limit on mortgage-interest deductions . they plan to expand the home site by buying five adjoining acres for $ 200,000 , borrowed against a first mortgage on the five acres and also collateralized by the 15 acres . their debt will be well under the $ 1 million limit -- on borrowing to acquire , build , or improve a home -- that qualifies for mortgage-interest deductions . as you can guess , the blandings want to deduct home-mortgage interest on the $ 200,000 loan . but , irs private ruling 8940061 notes 0 , no rule or court case bears directly on the issue of adding land to a principal residence . so the irs has drawn a rationale from the sale of a home site split in two and sold in different years to the same buyer ; a court let the seller in that old case treat this as the sale of one residence . thus , the irs says 0 , the blandings ' $ 200,000 loan is home-acquisition debt , and interest on it is fully deductible . earthquake victims facing imminent filing and payment deadlines will get extensions and penalty waivers like those provided for hugo 's victims ; irs notice 89108 has details . notice 89-107 offers added relief for hurricane-hit concerns that must file pension and benefit-plan returns . reports of payments to independent contractors for services must be filed by businesses , but do n't bet that contractors ' unreported income will be detected that way . the general accounting office estimates that 50 % of irs audits do n't spot companies that fail to file the reports . uh huh : a claim by peter testa of new york that a stranger paid him $ 500 to go into a bank and change $ 44,400 in small bills into large bills `` is unconvincing , '' the tax court found 0 . it held that testa is taxable on $ 44,400 of unreported income . why be a middleman for charitable gifts ? a retiree asks . a retired electrical engineer 0 we 'll call ben works part-time as a consultant , but he does n't want to earn so much that social security reduces his benefits . so he has arranged for a university foundation to set up a scholarship fund for undergraduate engineering students . he plans to tell clients to pay certain fees directly to the foundation instead of to him ; he would omit those fees from income reported on his return . so he asked the irs if the plan would work . well , notes 0 irs private ruling 8934014 , `` a fundamental principle '' is that income must be taxed to whoever earns it . the rule goes back at least as far as a 1930 supreme court decision , robert willens of shearson lehman hutton says 0 . if you assign your income to another , you still have controlled its disposition and enjoyed the fruits of your labor , even if indirectly . ben earns any fees sent directly to charity and is taxable on them , the irs says 0 ; of course , he also may take a charitable deduction for them . briefs : ways and means veteran gephardt -lrb- d. , mo . -rrb- moves to the house budget committee ; rep. cardin -lrb- d. , md . -rrb- replaces him ... . seattle 's license fees for adult peep shows vary from those for other coin-operated amusements without serving a substantial government interest and are unconstitutional , the ninth-circuit appeals court holds 0 for acorn investments inc .