as yogi berra might say , it 's deja vu all over again . crouched at shortstop , bert campaneris , once oakland 's master thief , effortlessly scoops up a groundball and flips it to second . in the outfield , paul blair , the orioles ' eight-time gold glove winner , elegantly shags a fly . on the mound , former red sox great luis tiant , the wily master of 1,001 moves , throws an off-speed strike . `` babies , kiddies , '' growls their manager -- a fellow named earl weaver , who , in a different time , handled four world series teams and now handles the gold coast suns . `` old-time kiddies , '' he says . perhaps . but for the next few months , these boys of summers long past are going to be reveling in an indian summer of the soul . now that the baseball season is officially over , you see 0 , it 's time 0 for a new season to begin . today is the debut of the senior professional baseball association , a new eight-team pro sports circuit , modeled after the highly successful senior tennis and golf tours and complete with good salaries , a cable television contract and even expansion plans . one hundred and ninety two former greats , near greats , hardly knowns and unknowns begin a 72-game , three-month season in spring-training stadiums up and down florida . for everyone involved , it 's one more swig of that elixir of youth , baseball . `` someone always makes you quit , '' says legendary st. louis cardinals centerfielder curt flood , the league 's commissioner . `` you feel 0 you want one more -- one more at-bat , one more hit , one more game . '' until the baby-faced heroes of today reclaim these ballparks for spring training , there is one more . and not just for the players . it 's one more for the baseball-loving lawyers , accountants and real estate developers who ponied up about $ 1 million each for the chance to be an owner , to step into the shoes of a gene autry or have a beer with rollie fingers . `` nothing can be better than this , '' says don sider , owner of the west palm beach tropics . early in the morning mr. sider , an estate lawyer , pores over last wills and testaments . midmorning , he dons an orange-and-blue uniform and , for fun , may field a bunt from dave kingman . it 's one more , too , for the fans who dream of a season that never ends . `` i feel like a little kid , '' says a gleeful alex de castro , a car salesman , who has stopped by a workout of the suns to slip six campaneris cards to the great man himself 0 to be autographed . the league 's promoters hope 0 retirees and tourists will join die-hard fans like mr. de castro and pack the stands to see the seniors . the league is the brainchild of colorado real estate developer james morley -- once a minor-leaguer himself -- who says 0 he had the idea last january while lying on a beach in australia . when he sent letters offering 1,250 retired major leaguers the chance of another season , 730 responded . eventually , about 250 made the trip to florida to compete for the available slots . -lrb- players have to be 35 or older , except for catchers , who are eligible at 32 because life behind the plate is so rough . -rrb- for some players , the lure is money -- up to $ 15,000 a month . others , just released from the majors , hope 0 the senior league will be their bridge back into the big-time . but as they hurl fireballs that smolder rather than burn , and relive old duels in the sun , it 's clear that most are there to make their fans cheer again or recapture the camaraderie of seasons past or prove to themselves and their colleagues that they still have it -- or something close to it . `` my fastball is good . real good , '' says 39-year-old pete broberg , working in the midday heat of the tropics camp . mr. broberg , who started with the now-defunct washington senators , says that when he left baseball in 1978 , he `` never looked back . '' for a long time , he ignored baseball altogether , even the sports pages . now mr. broberg , a lawyer , claims 0 he 'd play for free . `` you ca n't give it up that easily , '' he says . `` i tried . '' the nagging memory of one afternoon fourteen years ago drove jim gideon , a lean 36-year-old righthander to take a four-month leave from selling insurance in texas to try out for mr. weaver 's team . `` it does n't replace pitching in the majors , but it proves to me that i would have been able to play if i 'd stayed healthy , '' he says . back in 1975 , late in the season , a then-21 mr. gideon made his only major league appearance , five and two-thirds innings for the texas rangers against the chicago white sox . he gave up seven hits , walked five and did n't get a decision . arm troubles forced him back to the minors the next year . `` there 's a satisfaction in going against the rules , '' offers will mcenaney , once a stopper with cincinnati 's big red machine . he means the rule that a player ca n't cut it after a certain age . these days he hustles to house-painting jobs in his chevy pickup before and after training with the tropics . while sipping a beer after practice , he vividly recounts getting the red sox 's carl yastrzemski to pop out to end the 1975 world series , and repeating the feat against the yankees ' roy white in 1976 . some of the game 's reigning philosophers dislike the idea of middle-aged men attempting a young man 's sport . `` i personally do n't enjoy seeing players who i remember vividly from their playing days running about and being gallant about their deficiencies , '' says roger angell , new yorker magazine 's resident baseball sage . `` i feel 0 people should be allowed to remember players as they were . '' worse , says baseball author lawrence ritter , `` someone will get a heart attack and that will be the end of the whole story . '' but the ballplayers disagree . most are trim . some have been training for months ; others only recently left active status . -lrb- no one has worked out the players ' average age , but most appear to be in their late 30s . -rrb- and there 's pride . `` i 'm not going to look stupid , '' vows former pittsburgh pirate second baseman rennie stennett , sweat dotting his brow as he prepares for some practice swings . `` it 's going to be a tough league , '' promises the 47-year-old mr. campaneris . `` there will be a lot of malice . '' men who have played hard all their lives are n't about to change their habits , he says . nonetheless , one ca n't help wonder whether the game will be just a little bit slower . at the weatherbeaten pompano beach municipal stadium , mr. blair , the 45-year-old former oriole , knows 0 his power is n't what it used to be . so he adjusts . he no longer crowds the plate . he 's not thinking about home runs anymore , just base hits . still , `` how sweet it is , '' he says , savoring the fat sound of the well-hit line drive that bounces off the center field wall . and do n't expect many complete games by pitchers -- perhaps three out of 288 , laughs 0 mr. fingers , the former oakland reliever . expect `` tricky '' stuff from pitchers , says 0 mr. weaver , the manager . expect brushbacks but no beanballs , says 0 mr. mcenaney . even expect stolen bases , says 0 the wiry and fit mr. campaneris : `` if you know how to slide , it 's no problem , '' he says . and expect slower fastballs . `` i 'm not so young anymore , '' concedes the cigar-chomping , 48-year-old mr. tiant . `` i wo n't be throwing 90 mph , but i will throw 80-plus , '' he says . white-haired pedro ramos , at 54 the league 's oldest player and a pitcher-coach with the suns , has lost even more speed . stuffing a wad of red man into his cheek , he admits 0 the fastball 0 he brought into the majors in 1955 has become a slowball . its maximum velocity is 72 mph . but he is n't worried . he will compensate with the guile learned from his years in the majors . he has good control . he will keep the ball down , move it around . after all , he says 0 , `` even to make love , you need experience .