whose della femina mcnamee wcrs agency created liar joe isuzu , among others -- announced a massive restructuring that largely removes it from the advertising business and includes selling the majority of its advertising unit to paris-based eurocom . the complex restructuring , which was long expected , transforms london-based wcrs from primarily a creator of advertising into one of europe 's largest buyers of advertising time and space . it also creates a newly merged world-wide ad agency controlled by eurocom and headed jointly by new york ad man jerry della femina and two top wcrs executives . the merged agency 's admittedly ambitious goal : to become one of the world 's 10 largest agencies , while attracting more multinational clients than 0 the agencies were able to attract alone . wcrs 's restructuring reflects the growing importance of media buying in europe , where the only way 0 to get a good price on advertising time and space is to buy it in bulk . for eurocom , meanwhile , the move gives it a strong u.s. foothold in della femina , and more than quadruples the size of its ad agency business world-wide . it also gives the outspoken mr. della femina -- who often generates as much publicity for himself as for his clients -- an international platform that he most certainly wo n't be loath to use . according to terms , wcrs will pay 2.02 billion french francs -lrb- $ 318.6 million -rrb- for the 50 % 0 it does n't already own of carat holding s.a. , one of europe 's largest media buyers . meanwhile , eurocom , which had held 20 % of wcrs 's ad unit , will pay # 43.5 million -lrb- $ 68.5 million -rrb- to raise its stake to 60 % . that price also covers eurocom raising to 60 % its 51 % stake in europe 's belier group , a joint venture ad agency network 0 it owns with wcrs . eurocom will also have the right to buy the remaining 40 % of the merged ad agency group in six years . the transaction places the three executives squarely at the helm of a major agency with the rather unwieldy name of eurocom wcrs della femina ball ltd. , or ewdb . the merged agency will include della femina mcnamee based in new york , eurocom 's various agencies in france , the belier group in europe and wcrs 's other advertising and direct marketing operations . mr. della femina will be joint chairman with former wcrs executive robin wight . both will report to tim breene , a former wcrs executive who will be chief executive officer at the new agency . in an interview in new york , mr. breene , fresh from a concorde flight from paris where executives had worked through most of the night , outlined big plans for the new agency . `` our goal is to develop quite rapidly to a top-10 position ... by the end of three years from now . it implies very dramatic growth , '' he said . he added that eurocom and wcrs had agreed to provide a development fund of # 100 million for acquisitions . the new agency group is already in discussions about a possible purchase in spain , while mr. breene said 0 it also plans to make acquisitions in scandinavia , germany and elsewhere . cracking the top 10 within three years will be difficult at best . della femina had billings of just $ 660 million last year and ranked as the u.s. 's 24th-largest ad agency . the merged company that it now becomes part of will have billings of just more than $ 2.6 billion -- most of that in europe -- bringing it to about 14th world-wide . to make it to top-10 status , it would have to leapfrog over such formidable forces as grey advertising , d'arcy masius benton & bowles and omnicom 's ddb needham . the merged agency 's game plan to attract multinational packaged-goods advertisers may prove equally difficult . when wcrs created della femina mcnamee out of the merger of three smaller agency units in 1988 , it said 0 it did so in order to attract larger clients , especially packaged-goods companies . since then , della femina won pan am as an international client and also does work for a few packaged-goods clients , including dow chemical co. 's saran wrap . but major packaged-goods players of the world -- such as procter & gamble , colgate-palmolive and unilever -- have steadfastly eluded the agency . `` three of our favorite names , '' mr. della femina calls that roster , adding hopefully , `` we 're a much more attractive agency to large multinationals today than we were yesterday . '' still , the restructuring could create one of the most powerful alliances between advertising and media-buying firms that europe has seen . as part of the restructuring , wcrs and eurocom said 0 they will look for ways 0 to combine their media buying across europe . what 's more , both eurocom and brothers francis and gilbert gross , who founded carat , will acquire 14.99 % stakes in wcrs group , creating a powerful link between eurocom and carat . carat will receive its wcrs stake as part of payment for the 50 % carat stake that wcrs is buying , while eurocom said 0 it expects to pay about # 32 million for its wcrs stake . mr. della femina says 0 he plans to remain heavily involved in the creative product at the world-wide agency , serving as a sort of `` creative conscience . '' louise mcnamee , della femina 's president , will continue running the u.s. agency day-to-day . they and other top executives signed long-term employment contracts and mr. della femina will receive an additional multimillion-dollar sum , which some industry executives pegged at about $ 10 million . wcrs group , for its part , will now be able to follow its longstanding plan of becoming `` a holding company for a series of media-related businesses , '' said 0 peter scott , the firm 's chief executive . in addition to carat , wcrs will hold onto its public relations , tv programming and other businesses . wcrs says 0 its debt will be cut to # 24 million from # 66 million as a result of the transaction . for carat , meanwhile , the alliance with eurocom and wcrs is intended to strengthen its own push outside france . carat 's gross brothers invented the idea of large-scale buying of media space . by buying the space in bulk , they obtain discounts as high as 50 % , which they can pass on to customers . they thus have won the french space-buying business of such advertising giants as coca-cola co. , fiat s.p . a. , gillette and kodak . but now , other agencies are getting into the business with their own competing media-buying groups -- and carat wants to expand to the rest of europe . to help finance the carat purchase , wcrs said 0 it plans an issue of euroconvertible preferred shares once the market settles down . but wcrs added that `` in the light of the current uncertainty in the equity markets , '' it has arranged medium-term debt financing , which would be underwritten by samuel montagu & co. ltd . earthquake 's damage tuesday 's earthquake brought the san francisco ad scene to a screeching halt yesterday , with only a few staffers showing up at their offices , mainly to survey the damage or to wring their hands about imminent new-business presentations . while no agencies reported injuries to employees , the quake damaged the offices of j. walter thompson , chiat\/day\/mojo and ddb needham , among others , spokesmen for those agencies said 0 . staffers at thompson , whose offices are in the ultramodern embarcadero center , watched pictures drop from the walls and then felt the skyscraper sway seven to eight feet , according to a spokeswoman . plaster fell and windows were broken at chiat\/day\/mojo , a spokesman for that agency said 0 . late yesterday afternoon , ddb needham executives were scrambling to figure out what to do about a new business presentation that had been scheduled for today , a spokesman said 0 . ddb needham 's office building may have sustained structural damage , the spokesman added 0 . `` all operations have stopped , '' he said . a number of agencies , including thompson and foote , cone & belding , said 0 some employees who live outside of san francisco , fearful that they would n't be able to get home , spent the night at the agency . ad notes ... . new account : chesebrough-pond 's inc. , greenwich , conn. , awarded its faberge hair care accounts to j. walter thompson , new york . thompson , a unit of wpp group , will handle faberge organic shampoo and conditioner and aqua net hairspray . the accounts , which billed about $ 7 million last year , according to leading national advertisers , were previously handled at bozell , new york . who 's news : william morrissey , 44 , was named executive vice president , world-wide director of mccann direct , the direct marketing unit of interpublic group 's mccann-erickson agency . he had been president and chief operating officer of ogilvy & mather direct . bozell : los angeles will be the site of a new entertainment division for the ad agency . the division will be headed by dick porter , who returns to bozell after being vice president of media at mgm . ac&r advertising : the agency 's three california offices , previously called ac&r\/ccl advertising , will now be called ac&r advertising to match the name of its new york office . ac&r advertising is a unit of saatchi & saatchi co . new beer : sibra products inc. , greenwich , conn. , awarded its cardinal amber light beer account to heidelberg & associates , new york . budget is set at $ 1.5 million . the new beer , introduced this week at a liquor industry convention , is imported from switzerland 's cardinal brewery . heidelberg 's first ads for the brand , which sibra says 0 will compete with imported light beer leader amstel light , feature the line `` the best tasting light beer 0 you 've ever seen .