senate republicans have settled on a proposal that would cut the capital-gains tax for individuals and corporations . at the same time , a small group of senate democrats are working on a similar plan and may introduce it soon . sen. bob packwood -lrb- r. , ore. -rrb- , the lead sponsor of the gop proposal , said 0 he intends to unveil the plan today and to offer it as an amendment to whatever legislation comes along , particularly this month 's bill 0 to raise the federal borrowing limit . he gave 10-to-1 odds that a capital-gains tax cut of some sort would be approved this year , though it probably wo n't be included in the pending deficit-reduction bill . he added that he expects to talk to the democrats who also wanted to cut the gains tax about drafting a joint proposal . for individuals , the packwood plan would exclude from income 5 % of the gain from the sale of a capital asset held for more than one year . the exclusion would rise five percentage points for each year 0 the asset was held until it reached a maximum of 35 % . the exclusion would apply to assets sold after oct. 1 , 1989 . as an alternative , he said 0 , taxpayers could chose to reduce their gains by an inflation index . for corporations , the top tax rate on the sale of assets held for more than three years would be cut to 33 % from the current top rate of 34 % . that rate would gradually decline to as little as 29 % for corporate assets held for 15 years . the packwood plan would also include a proposal , designed by sen. william roth -lrb- r. , del. -rrb- , that would expand and alter the deduction for individual retirement accounts . the roth plan would create a new , non-deductible ira from which money could be withdrawn tax-free not only for retirement , but also for the purchase of a first home and to pay education and medical expenses . current iras could be rolled over into the new iras but would be subject to tax . for their part , the group of democrats are working on a plan that , like the packwood proposal , would grant larger exclusions to assets the longer 0 they were held by individuals and companies . newly acquired assets would get a bigger break than those currently held . an extra exclusion would be given to long-held stock in small and medium-size corporations just starting up . no one in the senate is considering the capital-gains plan passed by the house . that plan would provide a 30 % exclusion to assets sold over a 2 1\/2-year period ending dec. 31 , 1991 . after then , the house measure would boost the tax rate to 28 % and exclude from tax the gain attributable to inflation . senators are focusing on making a capital-gains differential permanent . separately , chairman dan rostenkowski -lrb- d. , ill . -rrb- of the house ways and means committee said 0 he did n't want the capital-gains tax cut or any other amendments attached to the pending bill raising the federal borrowing limit . the current debt limit expires oct. 31 . he also urged house and senate negotiators to rid the deficit-reduction bill of all provisions that increase the budget deficit , including the house-passed capital-gains provision .