regarding the oct. 3 letter to the editor from rep. tom lantos , chairman of the house subcommittee on employment and housing , alleging : 1 . that your sept. 28 editorial `` kangaroo committees '' was factually inaccurate and deliberately misleading . i thought 0 your editorial was factually accurate and deliberately elucidative . 2 . that mr. lantos supported the rights of the witnesses to take the fifth amendment . yes , he did . as i watched him on c-span , i heard 0 him speak those lovely words about the bill of rights , which he quotes from the transcript of the hearings . he did repeat those nice platitudes several times as an indication of his support for the constitution . he used about 56 words defending the witnesses ' constitutional rights . unfortunately , by my rough guess , he used better than 5,000 words heaping scorn on the witnesses for exercising the fifth . he sandwiched his praise of constitutional meat between large loaves of bilious commentary . as your editorial rightly pointed out , samuel pierce , former hud secretary , and lance wilson , mr. pierce 's former aide , `` are currently being held up to scorn for taking the fifth amendment . '' that certainly is not the supposed `` distorted reading '' indicated by mr. lantos . 3 . that his `` committee does not deal with any possible criminal activity at hud . my colleagues and i fully realize 0 we are not a court ... etc . '' absolute rubbish . by any `` reasonable man '' criterion , mr. lantos and his colleagues have a whole bunch of people tried and convicted . apparently , their verdict is in . right now they 're pursuing evidence . that 's not a bad way 0 to proceed , just somewhat different from standard american practice . how was that practice referred to when i was in school ? ah , yes , something called a star chamber . of course , mr. lantos doth protest that his subcommittee simply seeks information for legislative change . no doubt 0 that 's partially true . everything that mr. lantos says in his letter is partially true . he 's right about his subcommittee 's responsibilities when it comes to obtaining information from prior hud officials . but if his explanation of motivation is true , why is his investigation so oriented as to identify criminal activity ? why not simply questions designed to identify sources and causes of waste and inefficiency ? such as , what happened when congress wanted to know about $ 400 toilet seats or whatever they supposedly cost ? no , mr. lantos 's complaints simply wo n't wash . 4 . that the journal defends `` the sleaze , fraud , waste , embezzlement , influence-peddling and abuse of the public that took place while mr. pierce was secretary of hud , '' etc. and so forth . no , to my mind , the journal did not `` defend sleaze , fraud , waste , embezzlement , influence-peddling and abuse of the public trust ... '' it defended appropriate constitutional safeguards and practical common sense . the problem , which the journal so rightly pointed out in a number of articles , is not the likes of mr. lantos , who after all is really a bit player on the stage , but the attempt by congress to enhance itself into a quasi-parliamentary\/judicial body . -lrb- of course , we 've also got a judiciary that seeks the same objective . -rrb- the system is the problem , not an individual member . individuals can always have their hands slapped . it 's when such slapping does n't occur that we 've got trouble . i do not by any means defend hud management . but i think 0 the kind of congressional investigation that has been pursued is a far greater danger to american notions of liberty and freedom than any incompetency -lrb- and , yes , maybe criminality -rrb- within hud could possibly generate . the last time 0 i saw a similar congressional hearing was when `` tail gunner joe '' mccarthy did his work . raymond weber parsippany , n.j . i disagree with the statement by mr. lantos that one should not draw an adverse inference against former hud officials who assert their fifth amendment privilege against self-incrimination in congressional hearings . the fifth amendment states in relevant part that no person `` shall be compelled , in any criminal case , to be a witness against himself . '' this privilege against self-incrimination precludes the drawing of an adverse inference against a criminal defendant who chooses not to testify . thus , in a criminal case , a prosecutor can not comment on a defendant 's failure to testify nor can the defendant be compelled to take the stand as a witness , thus forcing him to `` take the fifth . '' the privilege , however , has been limited in accordance with its plain language to protect the defendant in criminal matters only . the supreme court and some states have specifically recognized that `` the fifth amendment does not preclude the inference where the privilege is claimed by a party to a civil cause . '' baxter v. palmingiano , 425 u.s. 308 -lrb- 1976 -rrb- . thus , in a civil case , a defendant may be called as a witness , he may be forced to testify or take the fifth , and his taking of the fifth may permit the drawing of an adverse inference against him in the civil matter . he may take the fifth in a civil matter only if he has a good faith and justifiable belief that his testimony may subject him to criminal prosecution . allowing the defendant to take the fifth in a civil matter is not based on a constitutional right to refuse to testify where one 's testimony harms him in the civil matter , but because the testimony in the civil matter could be unconstitutionally used against him in a subsequent criminal prosecution . absent the risk of such prosecution , a court may order the defendant to testify . thus , when mr. pierce asserted the fifth in a noncriminal proceeding , particularly after presumably receiving extensive advice from legal counsel , one must conclude that he held a good-faith , justifiable belief that his testimony could be used against him in a subsequent criminal prosecution . the subcommittee , congress and the american public have every right to draw the adverse inference and to concur with mr. pierce 's own belief that his testimony could help convict him of a crime . drawing the adverse inference in a noncriminal congressional hearing does not offend the fifth amendment shield against self-incrimination . clark s. spalsbury jr . estes park , colo .