georgia-pacific corp. offered to acquire great northern nekoosa corp. for $ 58 a share , or about $ 3.18 billion . the offer capped a week of rumors that georgia-pacific , an atlanta-based forest-products company , was considering making a bid for nekoosa , a paper-products concern based in norwalk , conn . executives at nekoosa could n't be reached , and officials at georgia pacific declined to comment . analysts , however , were surprised because the tender offer appeared unsolicited . `` it 's quite a bombshell , '' said one , adding that the offer could spark a period of industry consolidation . the two companies would appear to be a logical fit because of their complementary lines , and analysts described the offer , representing a 36 % premium over nekoosa 's market price , as fair . nekoosa closed yesterday at $ 42.75 , up $ 2.75 , in new york stock exchange composite trading . but industry observers still questioned whether georgia pacific will ultimately prevail . `` you have to watch out for counterbids , '' said one analyst . `` international paper or weyerhaeuser could step in . '' the bid for great northern , a notice of which appears in an advertisement in today 's wall street journal , is the first big takeover offer since the collapse of a $ 6.79 billion buy-out of united airlines parent ual corp. oct. 13 . that collapse , following on the heels of disarray in the market for high-risk , high-yield bonds , cast doubt on the entire takeover business , which has fueled both big profits among wall street securities firms and big gains in the stock market generally . while georgia-pacific 's stock has outperformed the market in the past two years , nekoosa has lagged the market in the same period . yesterday 's rise in nekoosa 's share price came on volume of 786,700 shares , four times the daily average . according to dow jones professional investor report , options trading in nekoosa was also heavy , ranking only behind international business machines corp. and ual in volume on the chicago board options exchange . according to the value line investment survey , demand for nekoosa 's commodity paper has weakened , prompting earnings to decline by 6.6 % in the third quarter ended sept. 30 . value line added , `` with discounts widening on business papers , and with newsprint and corrugated shipments flat , we expect negative earnings comparisons through next year . '' by contrast , value line said 0 georgia-pacific `` is in a comparatively good position to deal with weakening paper markets , '' because its production is concentrated not in the northwest but in the south , where it should be able to avoid some of the cost pressures from rising wood-chip prices . also , it is n't exposed to the weakening newsprint business , and is strong in the less-cyclical tissue business . the purchase of nekoosa would easily eclipse georgia-pacific 's $ 530 million acquisition of brunswick pulp & paper co. last year . that acquisition , which also included the assumption of $ 135 million in debt , was designed to allow georgia-pacific to capitalize on the strong demand for softwood pulp , as well as reduce its exposure to the housing market . wasserstein perella & co. is the dealer-manager for the offer , which will expire nov. 29 , unless extended .