hospital regulation sparks kentucky feud which is the best medicine for runaway health costs : competition or regulation ? the question is at the root of a brawl between humana inc. , the big for-profit hospital and insurance company , and its not-for-profit brethren in its home state of kentucky . the battle focuses on the state 's certificate-of-need law , which regulates investment in new medical technology . the law has prevented $ 216 million of unnecessary expenditures since 1986 , according to william s. conn , president of the kentucky hospital association . but according to david jones , humana 's chief executive , it promotes technology monopolies , stifles innovation and raises prices . if the legislature does n't repeal the law , due for revision in 1990 , mr. jones says 0 humana may move its insurance operations , including 3,000 jobs in louisville , to another state . the company complains that it paid $ 10 million to non-humana hospitals in its latest fiscal year for services provided to its insurance plan members . but humana says 0 its own facilities could serve its insured for less if they were properly equipped . mr. conn charges that humana 's own actions undermine its argument . when a hospital in lexington installed a lithotripter last year , demand for a similar kidney-stone smashing machine at a humana hospital in louisville fell 34 % . the humana hospital responded by jacking up prices to make up for lost revenue , mr. conn says 0 , and now charges as much as $ 8,000 for the procedure , which costs only about $ 3,500 in lexington . humana contends that $ 8,000 represents an extreme case and that its regular charge for lithotripsy is $ 4,900 . meanwhile , another hospital 's proposal for a new-generation lithotripter is pending before the board that administers the certificate-of-need law . humana , which wants to acquire one of the new machines itself , is on the record as opposed to the proposal . debt-burdened doctors seek financial security health-care experts have long worried that young doctors emerging from medical school with a mountain of debt will choose careers in high-paying specialties instead of primary care , where more physicians are needed most . now there 's a new wrinkle in what young doctors want : more than half of 300 residents responding to recent survey said 0 they 'd prefer a guaranteed salary over traditional fee-for-service compensation in their first professional position . and 81 % preferred a group practice or health maintenance organization , while just 11 % favored solo practice . `` ten years ago , a physician would go to a town and take out a loan -lrb- to start a practice -rrb- , '' says james merritt , president of merritt , hawkins & associates , an irvine , calif. , physician recruiter that conducted the survey . `` they wo n't do that very often today at all . they 're looking for something that 's very safe . '' the numbers behind such fears : the average debt of medical school graduates who borrowed to pay for their education jumped 10 % to $ 42,374 this year from $ 38,489 in 1988 , says 0 the association of american medical colleges . that 's 115 % more than in 1981 . money is n't the only reason for the shift in practice preferences . it reflects values of a generation that wants more time for families and personal interests , says john h. moxley iii , who directs physician-executive searches for korn\/ferry international . `` this is a change in the social fabric of medicine , '' he says . related roommates trim hospital bills when catherine bobar spent several weeks at the medical center of vermont recently with a bone infection in her toe , she shared a room just like most patients . but unlike most patients , her roommate was her husband . `` it was certainly good to have him handy , '' mrs. bobar says . the 12-bed `` cooperative care '' unit is one of about 18 nationwide where a family member or friend helps care for a patient in the hospital . `` the philosophy is to make the patient and the family very responsible for a portion of their own care , '' says anthony j. grieco , medical director of cooperative care at new york university medical center , where the concept began 10 years ago . `` it helps us , and them , while they 're here , and it certainly makes them a better health-care team when they get home . '' it also saves money . because patients require less attention from nurses and other staff , room charges are lower -- about $ 100 less per day than a regular room at the vermont hospital . cancer patients needing prolonged radiation therapy , diabetics learning to manage their blood sugar levels , and cardiac bypass patients are among those who spend time on cooperative-care units . the approach has generated so much interest that nyu is host to the first conference on cooperative care nov. 30 . `` it 's really part of the hospital of the 21st century , '' dr. grieco says . odds and ends the chief nursing officer can be responsible for more than 1,000 employees and at least one-third of a hospital 's budget ; a head nurse typically oversees up to 80 employees and $ 8 million . so says the commonwealth fund , a new york philanthropist that 's sponsoring a $ 1 million project 0 to develop joint masters in business and nursing programs at 10 universities ... . meharry medical college in nashville , tenn. , launches a new research publication in the spring : the journal on health care for the poor and underserved .