predicting the financial results of computer firms has been a tough job lately . take microsoft corp. , the largest maker of personal computer software and generally considered an industry bellwether . in july , the company stunned wall street with the prediction that growth in the personal computer business overall would be only 10 % in 1990 , a modest increase when compared with the sizzling expansion of years past . investors -- taking this as a sign that a broad industry slump was in the offing -- reacted by selling the company 's stock , which lost $ 3.25 that day to close at $ 52 in national over-the-counter trading . but that was all of three months ago . last week , microsoft said 0 it expects revenue for its first quarter ended sept. 30 to increase 34 % . the announcement caused the company 's stock to surge $ 6.50 to close at $ 75.50 a share . microsoft 's surprising strength is one example of the difficulty facing investors looking for reassurances about the financial health of the computer firms . `` it 's hard to know what to expect at this point , '' said peter rogers , an analyst at robertson stephens & co . `` the industry defies characterization . '' to illustrate , mr. rogers said that of the 14 computer-related firms 0 he follows , half will report for their most recent quarter earnings below last year 's results , and half above those results . among those companies expected to have a down quarter are hewlett-packard co. , amdahl corp. and sun microsystems inc. , generally solid performers in the past . international business machines corp. also is expected to report disappointing results . apple computer inc. , meanwhile , is expected to show improved earnings for the period ended sept . another contradictory message comes from businessland inc. , a computer retailer . in july , the company reported that booming sales of new personal computers from apple and ibm had resulted in net income more than doubling for its fourth quarter ended june 30 to $ 7.4 million , or 23 cents a share . this month , however , businessland warned investors that results for its first quarter ended sept. 30 had n't met expectations . the company said 0 it expects earnings of 14 to 17 cents a share , down from 25 cents a share in the year-earlier period . while the earnings picture confuses , observers say 0 the major forces expected to shape the industry in the coming year are clearer . companies will continue to war over standards . in computer publishing , a battle over typefaces is hurting adobe systems inc. , which sells software that controls the image produced by printers and displays . until recently , adobe had a lock on the market for image software , but last month apple , adobe 's biggest customer , and microsoft rebelled . now the two firms are collaborating on an alternative to adobe 's approach , and analysts say 0 they are likely to carry ibm , the biggest seller of personal computers , along with them . the short-term outlook for adobe 's business , however , appears strong . the company is beginning to ship a new software program that 's being heralded as a boon for owners of low-end printers sold by apple . the program is aimed at improving the quality of printed material . john warnock , adobe 's chief executive officer , said 0 the mountain view , calif. , company has been receiving 1,000 calls a day about the product since it was demonstrated at a computer publishing conference several weeks ago . meanwhile , competition between various operating systems , which control the basic functions of a computer , spells trouble for software firms generally . `` it creates uncertainty and usually slows down sales , '' said russ crabs , an analyst at soundview financial group . mr. crabs said 0 this probably is behind the expected weak performance of aldus corp. , maker of a widely used computer publishing program . he expects aldus to report earnings of 21 cents a share on revenues of $ 19.5 million for its third quarter , compared with earnings of 30 cents a share on revenue of 20.4 million in the year-earlier period . aldus officials could n't be reached for comment . on the other hand , the battle of the bus is expected to grow increasingly irrelevant . a bus is the data highway within a computer . ibm is backing one type of bus called microchannel , while the nine other leading computer makers , including h-p and compaq computer corp. , have chosen another method . `` users do n't care about the bus , '' said daniel benton , an analyst at goldman , sachs & co . he said 0 apple 's family of macintosh computers , for instance , uses four different buses `` and no one seems to mind . '' the gap between winners and laggards will grow . in personal computers , apple , compaq and ibm are expected to tighten their hold on their business . at the same time , second-tier firms will continue to lose ground . some lagging competitors even may leave the personal computer business altogether . wyse technology , for instance , is considered a candidate 0 to sell its troubled operation . `` wyse has done well establishing a distribution business , but they have n't delivered products that sell , '' said kimball brown , an analyst at prudential-bache securities . mr. brown estimates 0 wyse , whose terminals business is strong , will report a loss of 12 cents a share for its quarter ended sept . personal-computer makers will continue to eat away at the business of more traditional computer firms . ever-more powerful desk-top computers , designed with one or more microprocessors as their `` brains , '' are expected to increasingly take on functions carried out by more expensive minicomputers and mainframes . `` the guys that make traditional hardware are really being obsoleted by microprocessor-based machines , '' said mr. benton . as a result of this trend , longtime powerhouses h-p , ibm and digital equipment corp. are scrambling to counterattack with microprocessor-based systems of their own . but they will have to act quickly . mr. benton expects compaq to unveil a family of high-end personal computers later this year that are powerful enough to serve as the hub for communications within large networks of desk-top machines . a raft of new computer companies also has targeted this `` server '' market .