investors celebrated the second anniversary of black monday with a buying spree in both stocks and bonds . but the dollar was mixed . stock and bond investors were cheered by last month 's encouragingly low inflation rate . this news raised hopes for further interest-rate cuts . treasury-bond prices immediately rallied , setting the stock market rolling from the opening bell . the dow jones industrial average , up about 60 points in mid-afternoon , finished with a gain of 39.55 points , to 2683.20 . that brought the average 's cumulative gain this week to about 114 points . since the 1987 crash , the industrials have soared more than 54 % , and the widely watched market barometer is about 4 % below its record high set earlier this month . the stock-market rally was led by blue-chip issues , but , unlike monday 's rebound , was broadly based . indeed , over-the-counter stocks , led by technology issues , outleaped the industrial average . the nasdaq composite index soared 7.52 , or 1.6 % , to 470.80 , its highest one-day jump in points this year . many takeover-related stocks rose after news that a group obtained financing commitments for the proposed buy-out of american medical international inc . among the biggest winners were brokerage-house stocks , responding to heavy trading volume . the government said 0 consumer prices rose only 0.2 % last month . economists expected twice as large an increase . that news , plus recent signs of economic sluggishness , greatly increases pressure on the federal reserve to ease credit further , which in turn would be good news for stocks , investment managers say 0 . `` i see a lot of evidence indicating a slower economy , and that means 0 my interest-rate outlook has a downward tilt , '' said garnett l. keith jr. , vice chairman of prudential insurance co. of america , one of the nation 's largest institutional investors . fed officials probably wo n't drive down rates immediately , mr. keith said 0 . despite the inflation news , several fed officials still fear 0 consumer-price pressures will intensify because they insist 0 the economy is stronger than generally believed . but wall street analysts expect further signs of economic weakness in government reports during the next few weeks . if so , that will cinch the case for another shot of credit-easing within a month or so . that , in turn , is expected to persuade banks to cut their prime lending rate , a benchmark rate on many corporate and consumer loans , by half a percentage point , to 10 % . `` we 're not out of the woods yet by any means , '' said george r. mateyo , president and chief executive of carnegie capital management co. , cleveland . but the economy `` is slowing enough 0 to give the federal reserve leeway 0 to reduce interest rates . '' but many individual investors are leery about stocks because of fresh signs of fragility in the huge junk-bond market . investors also are anxious about today 's `` witching hour , '' the monthly expiration of stock-index futures and options , and options on individual stocks . this phenomenon often makes stock prices swing wildly at the end of the trading session . in major market activity : stock prices surged in heavy trading . volume on the new york stock exchange rose to 198.1 million shares from 166.9 million wednesday . gaining big board issues outnumbered decliners by 1,235 to 355 . the dollar was mixed . in new york late yesterday , it was at 141.70 yen , up from 141.45 yen late wednesday . but it fell to 1.8470 marks from 1.8485 .