in the aftermath of the beijing massacre on june 4 , economists advanced wildly divergent views on how hong kong would be affected . among the most upbeat was bt brokerage -lrb- asia -rrb- ltd . in a june 5 reaction , the bankers trust co. unit proclaimed the economy `` shockproof . '' others were more cautious . in a july analysis titled `` from euphoria to despair , '' w.i. carr -lrb- far east -rrb- ltd. , another securities firm , said that eroding confidence might undermine future economic development . today , with business activity in hong kong staggering along at an uneven pace , the economy itself seems locked in a struggle between hope and fear . manufacturers have survived the turmoil in china largely unscathed . signs of revival seem evident in hong kong 's hard-hit hotel sector . but in the stock and real-estate markets , activity remains spotty even though prices have regained much of their lost ground . waning demand reported by importers , retailers and even fancy restaurants all reinforce a profile of a community that is sharply tightening its belt . as many economists and businessmen see it , those incongruities underscore a paradox that seems likely to bedevil the economy throughout the 1990s . that paradox is hong kong 's economically rewarding yet politically perilous relationship with china . as a model of capitalist efficiency on southern china 's doorstep , hong kong 's prospects look good . china 's land and labor offer inexpensive alternatives to local industry . china-bound freight streams through the territory 's port . in the decade since the communist nation emerged from isolation , its burgeoning trade with the west has lifted hong kong 's status as a regional business center . these benefits seem secure despite china 's current economic and political troubles . but to hong kong , china is n't purely business . it is also the sovereign power that , come 1997 , will take over this british colony . china 's leaders have promised generous liberties for post-1997 hong kong . that promise sounds shaky now that those same leaders have fallen back on marxist dogma and brute force to crush their nation 's democracy movement . outflows of people and capital from hong kong have been growing since the sovereignty issue first arose in the early 1980s . a widely held assumption all along has been that , given its robust economy , hong kong will be able to attract sufficient foreign money and talent to comfortably offset the outflows . with interest in emigration and investment abroad soaring since june 4 , that assumption no longer seems so safe . investment and emigration plans take time to come to fruition . only four months have passed since the beijing massacre , and few are prepared to predict its ultimate impact . the only consensus is that more money and people may leave hong kong than had been thought likely . this expected blow has cast a pall over the economy 's prospects . the question , as many people see it , is how long such uncertainty will last . maureen fraser , an economist with w.i. carr , a subsidiary of france 's banque indosuez , believes that the territory may not be able to regain its momentum until some time after 1997 . it may experience an upswing or two in between . but with local investors shaken by china 's political and economic turmoil , she says 0 , a genuine recovery may not arrive until hong kong can prove itself secure under chinese sovereignty . `` investors have to accept the possibility of a significant slowdown in economic activity in the runup to 1997 , '' she says . `` over the next few years , i would advise caution . '' in a soon-to-be published book on the territory , a political economist , miron mushkat , has derived three future scenarios from interviews with 41 hong kong government officials and businessmen . nearly half of them argue that hong kong 's uneasy relationship with china will constrain -- though not inhibit -- long-term economic growth . the rest are split roughly between optimists who expect hong kong to hum along as before and pessimists who foresee irreparable chaos . the interviews took place two years ago . since the china crisis erupted , mr. mushkat says 0 , the scenario as 0 depicted by the middle-of-the-road group bears a remarkable resemblance to the difficulties 0 hong kong currently faces . the consensus of this group , which he dubs `` realists , '' is that the local economy will grow through the 1990s at annual rates averaging between 3 % and 5 % . such a pace of growth , though respectable for mature industrialized economies , would be unusually slow for hong kong . only twice since the 1960s has annual gross domestic product growth here fallen below 5 % for two or more consecutive years . the first instance occurred in 1967-68 , when china 's cultural revolution triggered bloody street rioting in the colony . the other came in 1974-75 from the combined shock of world recession and a severe local stock market crash . during the past 10 years , hong kong 's economic growth has averaged 8.3 % annually . given hong kong 's record , mr. mushkat 's `` realists '' might have sounded unduly conservative when the interviews took place two years ago . under the current circumstances , he says 0 , their scenario no longer seems unrealistic . `` the city could lose some of its entrepreneurial flavor . it could lose some of its dynamism , '' says mr. mushkat , a director of baring securities -lrb- hong kong -rrb- ltd. , a unit of britain 's barings plc . `` it does n't have to be a disaster . it just means that hong kong would become a less exciting place . '' going by official forecasts of gdp , which measures the colony 's output of goods and services , minus foreign income , mr. mushkat 's `` realists '' seem relatively close to the mark . after taking into account the fallout from the china crisis , the government has projected 1989 gdp growth of 5 % . the updated forecast , published aug. 25 , compares with an earlier forecast of 6 % published march 1 and a 7.4 % rate achieved in sir piers jacobs , hong kong 's financial secretary , says 0 a further downward revision may be justified unless the economy stages a more convincing rally . `` we are n't looking at anything like a doomsday scenario , '' he says . `` but clearly we 're entering a difficult period . '' many factors besides a dread of 1997 will have a bearing on hong kong 's economy . one concerns japanese investors . barely visible on hong kong 's property scene in 1985 , by last year japan had become the top foreign investor , spending $ 602 million . the market has grown relatively quiet since the china crisis . but if the japanese return in force , their financial might could compensate to some extent for local investors ' waning commitment . another -- and critical -- factor is the u.s. , hong kong 's biggest export market . even before the china crisis , weak u.s. demand was slowing local economic growth . conversely , strong consumer spending in the u.s. two years ago helped propel the local economy at more than twice its current rate . indeed , a few economists maintain that global forces will continue to govern hong kong 's economic rhythm . once external conditions , such as u.s. demand , swing in the territory 's favor , they argue 0 , local businessmen will probably overcome their 1997 worries and continue doing business as usual . but economic arguments , however solid , wo n't necessarily impress hong kong 's 5.7 million people . many are refugees , having fled china 's unending cycles of political repression and poverty since the communist party took power in 1949 . as a result , many of those now planning to leave hong kong ca n't easily be swayed by momentary improvements in the colony 's political and economic climate . emigration applications soared in 1985 , when britain and china ratified their accord on hong kong 's future . in 1987 , hong kong 's most prosperous year for a decade , 30,000 left , up 58 % from the previous year . last year , 45,000 went . the government predicts that annual outflows will level off over the next few years at as much as 60,000 -- a projection that is widely regarded as unrealistically low . a large number of those leaving are managers and professionals . while no one professes to know the exact cost of such a `` brain drain '' to the economy , hardly anyone doubts that it poses a threat . `` when the economy loses a big portion of its work force that also happens to include its most productive members , economic growth is bound to be affected , '' says anthong wong , an economist with hang seng bank .