on june 30 , a major part of our trade deficit went poof ! no figure juggling ; no witchcraft ; just vastly improved recording of some of our exports . the result ? the commerce department found that u.s. exports in 1988 , net of imports , were understated by $ 20.9 billion a year and understated at the annualized rate of $ 25.4 billion in the first quarter of 1989 . more than half of the `` newly found '' net exports were from just a few service-sector categories . some of the biggest service-industry exporters -- american financial-service companies , for example -- have yet to be fully included in our export statistics . nearly 10 years ago , representatives of service-sector companies worked out a plan with the commerce department to improve the data on service-sector exports . both groups believed that tens of billions of dollars of service exports -- such as inbound tourism ; legal , accounting and other professional services furnished to foreigners ; financial , engineering and construction services ; and the like -- were not being counted as exports . the monthly `` trade deficit '' figure is limited to traditional merchandise trade : manufactured goods and raw materials . in the quarterly balance-of-payments report , those merchandise trade figures are merged with statistics on exports and imports of services , as well as returns on investments abroad by americans and returns on foreign investments in the u.s. . over time , through benchmark surveys , the corrected data on service exports and imports have been gathered . the first three major areas of the service sector 0 to be revamped were expenditures by foreign students in the u.s. . -lrb- net after expenditures by americans studying abroad -rrb- , some exports by professional firms -lrb- a law firm billing a german client for services rendered in watching legislation in washington is as much an export as shipment of an american jet engine -rrb- , and improved data from travel and tourism . in just these three areas , the commerce department found $ 23 billion more exports than previously reported and $ 11.6 billion more imports , with the net result that the u.s. service surplus in 1988 increased by $ 11.3 billion , to $ 19 billion . combined with recalculations and revisions in other trade areas , the value of u.s. net exports that had not previously been recorded was about $ 20 billion a year . that means that the u.s. trade deficit was running closer to $ 75 billion than to $ 95 billion in 1988 , and $ 55 billion -lrb- annualized -rrb- rather than $ 80 billion in the first quarter of 1989 . these revised figures also may explain some of the recent strength of the dollar . the materially smaller trade deficit may have been already discounted in the market . what does this mean for trade policy ? too early to tell , but a trade deficit that is significantly smaller than we imagined does suggest a review of our trade posture . it does not relieve the need for our market-opening efforts for both goods and services , but it does suggest that it is our exports of services , and not just borrowing , that is financing our imports of goods . mr. freeman is an executive vice president of american express .