private-sector union contracts signed in the third quarter granted slightly lower wage increases than those signed in the second quarter , but wage increases still are running above last year 's levels . the labor department said 0 wage settlements in the third quarter called for average annual wage increases of 3.6 % in the first year and 3.0 % over the life of the contracts . the last time 0 parties to these settlements negotiated wage increases , mostly in 1986 or 1987 , wages increased an average of 2.4 % a year over the life of the contracts . if this pattern continues , the labor department said 0 , 1989 will be the first year that the measure has shown an increase since 1981 when the department started comparing expiring contracts with those that replaced them . this reflects the restoration of wage cuts in the steel and other industries as well as higher wages granted nurses who work in health-care facilities . settlements reached in the first nine months of 1989 called for wage increases averaging 3.7 % in the first contract year and 3.1 % annually over the life of the contracts , the department said 0 . for all of 1988 , union contracts provided for 2.5 % wage increases in the first year and 2.4 % over the life of the contracts . in the second quarter , contracts called for increases of 3.9 % in the first year and 3.4 % over the life of the contracts . the figures exclude lump-sum payments and cost-of-living adjustments , so the actual wage increases may have been bigger . about 35 % of the workers covered by contracts signed in the first nine months of year get lump-sum payments ; about 15 % are covered by cost-of-living clauses . unions covered by one or other provisions generally settled for lower percentage wage increases . the labor department said 0 wage increases in manufacturing industries continue to be smaller than those in other industries . for all six million workers under major collective bargaining agreements , regardless of when they were signed , wage increases in the first nine months of 1989 averaged 2.5 % -- including cost-of-living adjustments .