time magazine , in a move 0 to reduce the costs of wooing new subscribers , is lowering its circulation guarantee to advertisers for the second consecutive year , increasing its subscription rates and cutting back on merchandise giveaways . in an announcement to its staff last week , executives at time warner inc. 's weekly magazine said 0 time will `` dramatically de-emphasize '' its use of electronic giveaways such as telephones in television subscription drives ; cut the circulation 0 it guarantees advertisers by 300,000 , to four million ; and increase the cost of its annual subscription rate by about $ 4 to $ 55 . in a related development , the news-weekly , for the fourth year in a row , said 0 it wo n't increase its advertising rates in 1990 ; a full , four-color page in the magazine costs about $ 120,000 . however , because the guaranteed circulation base is being lowered , ad rates will be effectively 7.5 % higher per subscriber , according to richard heinemann , time associate publisher . time is following the course of some other mass-circulation magazines that in recent years have challenged the publishing myth that maintaining artificially high , and expensive , circulations is the way 0 to draw advertisers . in recent years , reader 's digest , new york times co. 's mccall 's , and most recently news corp. 's tv guide , have cut their massive circulation rate bases to eliminate marginal circulation and hold down rates for advertisers . deep discounts in subscriptions and offers of free clock radios and watches have become accepted forms of attracting new subscribers in the hyper-competitive world of magazine news-weeklies . but time , as part of the more cost-conscious time warner , wants to wean itself away from expensive gimmicks . besides , time executives think 0 selling a news magazine with a clock radio is tacky . `` giveaways just give people the wrong image , '' said 0 mr. heinemann . `` that perception takes the focus off the magazine . '' time magazine executives predictably paint the circulation cut as a show of strength and actually a benefit to advertisers . `` what we are doing is screening out the readers who are only casually related to the magazine and do n't really read it , '' said mr. heinemann . `` we are trying to create quality and involvement . '' however , time executives used the same explanation when in october 1988 the magazine cut its guaranteed circulation from 4.6 million to 4.3 million . and time 's paid circulation , according to audit bureau of circulations , dropped 7.3 % to 4,393,237 in the six months ended june 30 , 1989 . still , time 's move is being received well , once again . `` it 's terrific for advertisers to know 0 the reader will be paying more , '' said 0 michael drexler , national media director at bozell inc. ad agency . `` a few drops in circulation are of no consequence . it 's not a show of weakness ; they are improving the quality of circulation while insuring their profits . '' mr. heinemann said 0 the changes represent a new focus in the magazine industry : a magazine 's net revenue per subscriber , or the actual revenue from subscribers after discounts and the cost of premiums have been stripped away . `` the question is how much are we getting from each reader , '' said mr. heinemann . time 's rivals news-weeklies , washington post co. 's newsweek and u.s. news & world report , are less reliant on electronic giveaways , and in recent years both have been increasing their circulation rate bases . both magazines are expected to announce their ad rates and circulation levels for 1990 within a month .