a new drug 0 to prevent the rejection of transplanted organs has been successfully used on more than 100 patients at the university of pittsburgh , according to researchers . the drug , which is still in the experimental phase , has n't been approved yet by the food and drug admistration , and its long-term effects are unknown . but researchers say 0 the drug , called fk-506 , could revolutionize the transplantation field by reducing harmful side effects and by lowering rejection rates . rejection has been the major obstacle in the approximately 30,000 organ transplants performed world-wide each year . researchers began using the drug in february on patients who had received kidney , liver , heart and pancreas transplants . only two of 111 transplants have been rejected . the drug , discovered in 1984 , is metabolized from soil fungus found in japan . the pittsburgh patients are the first humans 0 to be given the drug , which is made by fujisawa pharmaceutical co . `` we 're shocked by it , because it 's worked so fast , '' said dr. thomas e. starzl , director of the university of pittsburgh transplantation program , at a news conference here yesterday . `` we consider it a life-saving drug , like one for aids , '' said dr. john fung , an immunologist at the university of pittsburgh . researchers say 0 they believe 0 fk-506 is 100 times more effective than the traditional anti-rejection drug , cyclosporine , made by swiss pharmaceutical giant sandoz ltd . they are also encouraged by the relatively mild side effects of fk-506 , compared with cyclosporine , which can cause renal failure , morbidity , nausea and other problems . `` the side effects -lcb- of cyclosporine -rcb- have made the penalty for its success rather high , '' dr. starzl said . dr. fung said that fk-506 would not be available in the market for at least a year , and that the fda approval process usually takes three years to five years . there are no firm plans to expand the experimental program beyond the university of pittsburgh , whose hospital performs the most transplants in the world . researchers could n't estimate the cost of the drug when it reaches the market , but they said 0 fk-506 will enable patients to cut hospital stays by 50 % and reduce the number of blood tests used to monitor the dosage of cyclosporine and other drugs among transplant recipients . dr. starzl said 0 the research has been largely financed by the national institute of health and by university funds , and that fujisawa did n't give the hospital any grants . he said that the research team had no financial stake in the drug . `` we 've known for six months the effect of this drug , and our advice to our people has been not to buy the company 's stock , '' dr. starzl said , adding that profiting from fk-506 would n't be ethical .