it was the kind of snubbing rarely seen within the congress , let alone within the same party . sen. alan cranston trekked over to the house side of capitol hill a few days ago and volunteered his testimony to fellow democrat rep. henry gonzalez . it was offered as an expression of cooperation to mr. gonzalez , who is investigating the $ 2.5 billion failure of lincoln savings & loan association . but instead of thanks , sen. cranston was treated with cool formality . `` every witness receives a formal subpoena , '' rep. gonzalez told him . seldom have house hearings caused so much apprehension in the senate , where california sen. cranston and four other senators were already writhing in the glare of unfavorable publicity over the alleged looting of lincoln by their friend and political benefactor , charles keating jr. , principal stockholder of lincoln 's parent company , american continental corp. of phoenix , ariz . at the first day of the house banking committee 's hearings last week , william seidman , chairman of the resolution trust corp. , the federal agency created to sell sick thrifts , said 0 the agency is investigating whether lincoln made illegal political contributions . mr. keating arranged nearly $ 1 million in donations to sen. cranston and his various political causes , and hundreds of thousands more to other lawmakers . future witnesses include a former federal s&l regulator who has accused the five senators of attempting to `` subvert '' the regulatory process by intervening on behalf of mr. keating . unlike many lawmakers , chairman gonzalez says 0 he considers intervening with regulators to be improper . `` when you reach a point where a policy-making body is trying to shape administrative decisions , then that 's a no-no in my book , '' the texas lawmaker says . and he has attached himself to the lincoln story tenaciously . `` unless the questions are answered , i will keep on going . '' lawmakers often are reluctant to embarrass colleagues , even those of opposing political parties . in the recent housing and urban development department scandal , for example , rep. thomas lantos , the california democrat who led the hearings , tiptoed through embarrassing disclosures about hud grants secured by sen. alfonse d'amato , a new york republican . but chairman gonzalez is a genuine maverick . he comes from the same political line as wright patman , a bank-baiting texas populist who chaired the banking committee until 1974 . mr. gonzalez is also a stickler for ethical standards who refuses to accept honorariums and who believes in conducting official business in the open . early in his political career , as a city councilman in san antonio , he walked out of a meeting when political supporters asked that the police chief be replaced , denouncing the closed-door affair publicly as a `` bat-roost meeting . '' the immediate target of rep. gonzalez 's inquiry is danny wall , chairman of the office of thrift supervision . as the principal regulator of the thrift industry , mr. wall delayed seizing lincoln s&l for more than two years after his staff told him that the california thrift was insolvent and that potential losses to taxpayers were growing rapidly . rep. gonzalez seems primed to lash out at mr. wall when hearings resume thursday with testimony by two federal regulators from san francisco , william black and mike patriarca . mr. wall relieved them of responsibility for supervising lincoln in 1988 . mr. gonzalez expressed concern over a report that the two had been summoned to washington by mr. wall last week to discuss their testimony in advance . `` i think 0 he is trying to improperly influence a witness , and by god i 'm not going to tolerate it , '' he says . mr. wall , however , is a self-proclaimed `` child of the senate '' and former staff director of its banking committee . an inquiry into his handling of lincoln s&l inevitably will drag in sen. cranston and the four others , sens. dennis deconcini -lrb- d. , ariz. -rrb- , john mccain -lrb- r. , ariz. -rrb- , john glenn -lrb- d. , ohio -rrb- and donald riegle -lrb- d. , mich . -rrb- . they all attended a meeting in april 1987 questioning why a federal audit of lincoln s&l had dragged on for two years . `` i 'm certain that in the course of the hearings the names -lcb- of the senators -rcb- will be brought out , '' mr. gonzalez says . this is raising eyebrows . `` when i first got a glimpse at the witness list , i could n't believe that they were going to go ahead and do this , '' says michael waldman , director of congress watch , a consumer group . `` there are some witnesses who will be forced to testify about their meetings with senators . '' and a democratic aide to a banking committee member remarks , `` i too am astounded by it , because gonzalez has certainly placed a lot of democratic senators in a very bad position . '' all the senators say 0 they merely were trying to ensure fairness for a constituent . mr. keating lives in phoenix , and the california thrift 's parent is an ohio-chartered corporation with holdings in michigan . chairman gonzalez expresses sympathy for sen. riegle , his counterpart as chairman of the senate banking committee . `` he 's wise , he 's good and i know 0 he 's an honest man , '' the texan says . but at the same time , mr. gonzalez has n't forgotten a confrontation over mr. wall during house-senate negotiations over s&l bailout legislation during the summer . the senate negotiators included sens. cranston and riegle and mr. wall 's principal sponsor , republican sen. jake garn of utah . they were willing to trade important provisions in the bailout legislation to preserve mr. wall 's job and to avoid a reconfirmation hearing in which he would be called upon to testify about lincoln s&l . most importantly , the senate traded away the bush administration 's controversial plan to finance the bailout , which was partly reinstated later . at the time , mr. gonzalez said 0 several senators told him that they `` could get some roadblocks out of the way if there could be some understanding on garn 's insistence on wall . '' now mr. gonzalez is holding the equivalent of reconfirmation hearings anyway , under the guise of the lincoln investigation . `` in a way , that 's what this is , '' mr. gonzalez concedes . even some house banking committee members could suffer from the fallout . mr. keating raised $ 20,000 for rep. doug barnard 's 1986 re-election campaign while the georgia democrat was taking his side against regulators who wanted to curb risky investments and wholesale deposit brokering . he recently voted `` present '' when the committee authorized a subpoena 0 to compel mr. keating to testify , then changed his vote to yes . but the chairman 's supporters have the upper hand as federal regulators press a $ 1.1 billion fraud suit against mr. keating and others . rep. jim leach -lrb- r. , iowa -rrb- says 0 the lincoln s&l affair is `` the biggest bank heist in history , '' and adds : `` the great question that remains to be resolved is whether we have a congressional watergate in the making . '' a witness set to testify on thursday was quoted in a news report over the weekend as saying 0 lincoln `` laundered '' campaign contributions illegally . but the witness , william crawford , california 's chief state thrift regulator , denies saying that . `` i do n't know whether it was done properly or not , because i 'm not a lawyer , '' he said in a telephone interview yesterday . but he said 0 he is prepared to testify that executives of lincoln and its parent corporation got unusually high salaries and frequent calls directing them to make specific contributions . the committee also has summoned mr. wall 's predecessor , edwin gray . he has characterized the five senators ' roles as `` tantamount to an attempt to subvert the ... regulatory process , '' and he is n't expected to back down even though the five senators have disputed his account of a 1987 meeting . so the senators must brace themselves . sen. cranston , as he returned to the capital last week from a one-day trip 0 to inspect earthquake damage in san francisco , sighed to an aide : `` well , back to keatingland .