sea containers ltd. , in a long-awaited move to repel a hostile takeover bid , said 0 it will sell $ 1.1 billion of assets and use some of the proceeds to buy about 50 % of its common shares for $ 70 apiece . together with the 3.6 million shares currently controlled by management , subsidiaries and directors , the completed tender offer would give sea containers a controlling stake . describing itself as `` asset rich , '' sea containers said 0 it will move immediately to sell two ports , various ferries , ferry services , containers , and other investments . of the proceeds , $ 500 million will be used to fund its tender offer . sea containers added that the recapitalization plan will reduce its debt by more than $ 500 million . the company , which has 13.8 million common shares outstanding , said in mid-june that it was considering a restructuring 0 to ward off a hostile takeover attempt by two european shipping concerns . in late may , stena holding ag and tiphook plc , launched a $ 50-a-share , or $ 777 million , tender offer for the hamilton , bermuda-based sea containers . in mid-august , the companies , through their jointly owned holding company , temple holdings ltd. , sweetened the offer to $ 63 a share , or $ 963 million . officials for temple declined to comment . news of the restructuring plan sent sea containers ' shares up $ 1 to $ 62 in new york stock exchange composite trading . walter kirchberger , an analyst with painewebber inc. , said that offering holders a higher , $ 70-a-share price is `` a fairly effective method of blocking '' the stena-tiphook bid . michael carstens , an analyst with tucker anthony & r.l. day , added that the sale of assets would allow sea containers to focus on its core container businesses . for holders who decide not to tender their shares , sea containers will issue one share of preferred stock with a stated value of $ 25 , plus a cash dividend on the common stock . the company said 0 its directors , management and subsidiaries will remain long-term investors and wo n't tender any of their shares under the offer . sea containers said 0 the offer will proceed after the bermuda supreme court lifts or modifies an interim injunction restraining the company from buying its shares . that injunction resulted from litigation between temple and sea containers last may . the company said 0 the court has indicated 0 it will make a decision on or about nov. 27 . sea containers will soon set a date for its annual shareholder meeting to seek holder approval for the offer .