tandy corp. said 0 it wo n't join u.s. memories , the group that seeks to battle the japanese in the market for computer memory chips . tandy 's decision is a second setback for u.s. memories . last month , apple computer inc. said that it would n't invest in the group . apple said that its money would be better spent in areas such as research and development . u.s. memories is seeking major investors 0 to back its attempt to crack the $ 10 billion market for dynamic random access memory chips , a market dominated by the japanese . those chips were in dire shortage last year , hurting many u.s. computer companies that could n't get sufficient japanese-supplied chips . tandy said 0 its experience during the shortage did n't merit the $ 5 million to $ 50 million investment 0 u.s. memories is seeking from each investor . `` at this time , we elected not to get involved because we have been able to satisfy our need -lcb- for drams -rcb- from the market as a rule , '' said ed juge , tandy 's director of market planning . sanford kane , u.s. memories president , said 0 the decision was `` disappointing , '' but does n't presage u.s. memories ' failure . `` i would like to have had them , '' he said . but `` they were n't on my list of companies who were critical to be a part of it . '' mr. kane became president and chief executive officer of u.s. memories last june , when the group was formed by seven electronics companies : advanced micro devices inc. , digital equipment corp. ; hewlett-packard co. ; intel corp. ; international business machines corp. ; lsi logic corp. and national semiconductor corp . mr. kane said 0 he expects two or three major corporations to announce their participation in u.s. memories soon after the group finishes a business plan , probably late this week . u.s. memories needs a catalyst , he said 0 , 0 to inspire others to join . but so far , most potential participants have n't decided . sun microsystems inc. said it 's still actively evaluating u.s. memories and plans to meet with u.s. memories representatives later this week . american telephone & telegraph co. said 0 it was waiting to see u.s. memories ' business plan . personal-computer maker ast research inc. said 0 it is still studying the situation . a compaq computer corp. spokeswoman said that the company has n't made a decision yet , although `` it is n't under active consideration .