pierre peladeau , a canadian newspaper publisher little-known in the u.s. , figures to become a big player in north american printing -- and his ambitions do n't end there . yesterday , quebecor inc. , a montreal printing , publishing and forest-products company 53%-owned by mr. peladeau , agreed to acquire maxwell communication corp. 's u.s. printing subsidiary , maxwell graphics inc. , for $ 500 million in cash and securities . the purchase , expected to be completed by year end , will make quebecor the second-largest commercial printer in north america , behind only r.r. donnelley & sons co. , chicago . the printing customers that quebecor will gain through maxwell graphics include the sunday newspaper supplement parade , time , sports illustrated and tv guide . but the transaction is just mr. peladeau 's latest step in a larger design : to build quebecor through acquisitions into an integrated paper , publishing and printing concern with a reach throughout north america . he already has achieved vertical integration on a limited scale : quebecor can put a weekly newspaper on almost any quebec doorstep without using outside help , from chopping down the tree to making the newsprint to flinging it up onto the porch . analysts say 0 quebecor 's purchase is part of a trend toward consolidation in the north american printing industry . along with donnelley , says 0 jacques massicotte , an analyst with nesbitt thomson deacon inc. in montreal , `` quebecor has positioned itself as one of the two key players . '' he adds : `` i think 0 this is a great strategic move for quebecor . they are buying an operation that is running well . '' mr. peladeau says 0 he is n't trying to catch up to donnelley , which has annual sales of over $ 3 billion . `` size does n't matter , '' mr. peladeau says . `` what counts is the bottom line . '' some of mr. peladeau 's ventures , including an earlier push into the u.s. market , have n't paid off on the bottom line . quebecor started the philadelphia journal , a daily tabloid , in 1977 and closed it three years later . the venture cost quebecor $ 12 million , mr. peladeau says 0 . more recently , some former quebecor executives started their own printing company , specializing in printing and distributing advertising circulars . quebecor still lags in the quebec circulars market , while mr. peladeau 's former employees are expanding across canada . mr. peladeau took his first big gamble 25 years ago , when he took advantage of a strike at la presse , then montreal 's dominant french-language newspaper , to launch the journal de montreal . the tabloid 's circulation soared to 80,000 , but plunged to under 10,000 when the la presse strike ended . still , mr. peladeau stuck with the venture . now the journal , flush with ads and hugely profitable , is even with la presse in weekend circulation and outsells it 3 to 2 every weekday . mr. peladeau has never made any apologies for publishing the tabloid , a brash mix of crime and sports . `` i 've read balzac , '' he answers critics . `` it 's tabloid news from a to z . '' quebecor also publishes a second tabloid in montreal , the struggling 18-month-old montreal daily news ; dailies in quebec city and winnipeg , manitoba ; and dozens of weeklies covering most of quebec . a series of recent acquisitions made it the dominant magazine publisher in quebec . after a recent merger , it is also the only province-wide distributor of magazines and newspapers in quebec . finally , with maxwell communication , the company controls 54 % of donohue inc. , a quebec city pulp and paper concern . in yesterday 's accord , quebecor agreed to pay $ 400 million in cash for maxwell graphics , and to give maxwell communication a 20 % stake , valued at $ 100 million , in quebecor 's new printing subsidiary . the new , as yet unnamed , subsidiary will combine quebecor 's existing printing unit and maxwell graphics . it will have 61 plants from coast to coast and $ 1.5 billion in annual sales . quebecor will own 57.5 % of the new subsidiary . caisse de depot et placement , the quebec government pension-fund agency , will pay $ 112.5 million for the remaining 22.5 % stake in the printing operation . pierre-karl peladeau , the founder 's son and the executive in charge of the acquisition , says 0 quebecor has n't decided how it will finance its share of the purchase , but he says 0 it most likely will use debt . the maxwell deal is quebecor 's second big printing acquisition in just over a year . last october , quebecor bought 23 canadian printing plants from bce inc. , a montreal telecommunications , manufacturing , energy and real estate company . that purchase doubled quebecor 's annual printing revenue to $ 750 million . maxwell 's sale of its u.s. printing unit was expected , the last major business 0 to be disposed of in a major reshuffling of assets . according to its most recent annual report , covering the 15 months ended march 31 , maxwell communication bought $ 3.85 billion in assets -- including macmillan inc. and official airlines guides -- and sold $ 2 billion in non-strategic businesses . now , maxwell founder robert maxwell says 0 he has an appetite for new acquisitions in the u.s. , adding that he could spend `` a good deal more '' than $ 1 billion on another u.s. purchase . in london trading yesterday , maxwell communication shares rose nine pence , to 216 pence -lrb- $ 3.41 -rrb- . in montreal , quebecor 's multiple voting class a stock closed at c$ 16.375 -lrb- us$ 13.94 -rrb- , down 12.5 canadian cents . quebecor class b stock closed at c$ 15.375 , up 62.5 canadian cents . craig forman in london contributed to this article .