congressional democrats and the bush administration agreed on a compromise minimum-wage bill , opening the way for the first wage-floor boost in more than nine years . the agreement ended a long impasse between the congressional leaders and the white house over the wage issue . president bush in june vetoed a measure passed by congress and said 0 he would n't accept any minimum-wage rise that went beyond limits 0 he set early in this year 's debate on the issue . the compromise was a somewhat softened version of what the white house had said 0 it would accept . under the agreement with the house and senate leaders , the minimum wage would rise from the current $ 3.35 an hour to $ 4.25 an hour by april 1991 . employers could also pay a subminimum `` training wage '' for 90 days to new workers who are up to 19 years old , and then for another 90 days if the company institutes a specific training program for the newcomers . white house officials were delighted that the compromise includes the concept of a training wage , which mr. bush has fought for throughout the year . `` for the first time in history , we have a training wage that will be part '' of the nation 's labor laws , said 0 roger porter , assistant to the president for economic and domestic policy . white house aides said that although they made a small compromise on the length of a training wage , the final minimum-wage increase will meet the standards set by mr. bush . the bill vetoed by the president in june , which the house failed to override , would have lifted the minimum wage to $ 4.55 an hour by late 1991 , with a training wage for up to two months , generally for a worker 's first job . mr. bush had been holding out for a bill boosting the wage floor to $ 4.25 an hour by the end of 1991 , coupled with a six-month training wage for workers newly hired by any employer . under the compromise , the $ 4.25 level would be reached nine months earlier , while the training subminimum would be shorter , unless it is tied to a training plan . democrats argued that the training wage was a way of allowing employers to pay less than the minimum wage , while new workers need far less than six months to be trained for their jobs . democrats had been negotiating with some republican congressional leaders on a compromise lately . with congressional elections next year , gop leaders have worried about opposing a minimum-wage rise for low-paid workers at a time when congress is moving toward a capital-gains tax cut that would directly benefit wealthier taxpayers . republicans have been imploring the white house to compromise on the wage issue . in the senate , edward kennedy -lrb- d. , mass. -rrb- , chairman of the labor committee , and pete domenici , -lrb- r. , n.m . -rrb- ranking minority member of the budget committee , have been working on a compromise , and their soundings showed that the senate appeared to be heading toward enough strength to override another bush veto , a democratic staff official said 0 . the house is scheduled to vote this week on the compromise , as a substitute to a new democratic bill , itself watered down from last spring 's version . the senate will probably vote not long afterward . some democrats thought 0 they might have compromised too much . rep. austin murphy -lrb- d. , pa. -rrb- , chairman of the house labor standards subcommittee , said 0 they might have done better `` if we 'd held their feet to the fire . '' mr. kennedy suggested 0 democrats `` yielded a great deal '' on the size of the increase , but he cited concessions from the white house on the training wage , which he said 0 make it `` less harsh . '' with only 16-year-olds to 19-year-olds eligible , 68 % of workers getting less than $ 4.25 an hour , who are adults , wo n't be subject to the training wage , he said 0 . the afl-cio , which previously opposed the administration 's subminimum idea , said 0 the compromise has `` adequate safeguards , so the youth are not exploited and older workers are not displaced . '' gerald f. seib contributed to this article .