washington lies low after the stock market 's roller-coaster ride . lawmakers , haunted by charges that some of their comments contributed to the 1987 crash , generally shy away from calls for sweeping new legislation . but a house energy and commerce subcommittee will quiz sec chairman breeden wednesday , and treasury secretary brady will go before the senate banking panel thursday . the market 's wild week may speed along the market-reform legislation that has been pending for months in the aftermath of the 1987 crash . it may also expedite the sec 's modest pending changes in junk-bond disclosure rules and intensify the treasury 's look at plans for giving new tax breaks on dividends and raising taxes on short-term trades by pension funds . brady and breeden work well together on the plunge , despite the fact that the treasury secretary opposed breeden 's nomination to the sec post . baker falters in the mideast amid israeli paralysis and palestinian politics . despite seeing his plan for israeli-palestinian elections wither , the cautious secretary of state is so far unwilling to cut u.s. economic or military aid to force israeli cooperation . baker nonetheless remains furious both at shamir , for backing down on the elections , and at shamir 's rival , peres , for political ineptitude in forcing a premature cabinet vote on baker 's plan . meanwhile , some u.s. officials fear 0 plo chief arafat is getting cold feet and may back off from his recent moderation and renunciation of terrorism . he is under intense fire from other palestinian groups ; syria is pushing ahmad jibril , whose terrorist band is blamed for the pan am 103 bombing , as an alternative to arafat . darman's maneuvers on the budget and capital gains hurt him in congress . republicans as well as democrats were angered by the budget director 's rejection of speaker foley 's effort to expedite a deficitcutting measure by stripping it of the capital-gains tax cut as well as pet democratic projects . darman now blames the clash on miscommunication , but house gop leader michel , who carried the offer to him , observes , `` i was speaking english at the time , and quite loud so i could be understood . '' senate gop leader dole ridicules the budget chief on the senate floor . democratic counterpart mitchell , asked to interpret darman 's threat to make permanent the across-the-board gramm-rudman cuts that took effect this week , says , `` i do n't even bother to interpret them . '' but darman suggests 0 such tensions will dissipate quickly . `` if i can show signs of maturity , almost anybody can , '' he jokes . hhs officials expect secretary sullivan to continue a ban on research using fetal tissue . before he was confirmed , sullivan said 0 he had `` reservations about any blanket prohibitions on medical research . '' but now , an official says 0 , he is `` surrounded by right-to-lifers , '' who contend that any breakthroughs in fetal-tissue research could increase the demand for abortions . cooperation wanes on weapons development between the u.s. and europe . britain , france and italy pull out of a proposal to build new nato frigates ; the u.s. and west germany have each withdrawn from missile projects . defense experts say 0 joint projects are increasingly squeezed by budget pressures and the desire to save domestic jobs ; some also fear rising protectionism as european unity nears . both sides now : virginia gop lieutenant governor candidate eddy dalton tries to have it both ways on the abortion issue . though she opposes abortion in almost all cases , she airs a tv commercial using pro-choice buzzwords . `` a woman ought to have a choice in cases where her life or health are in danger and in cases of rape or incest , '' she proclaims . hot topic : interest in the abortion issue is so great that the hotline , a daily , computer-distributed political newsletter , comes up with a spinoff product called the abortion report dealing solely with its political implications . conservatives expect bush to solidify their majority on a key court . bush has three vacancies 0 to fill on the prestigious d.c. circuit court , which handles many important regulatory issues and is often considered a warm-up for future supreme court nominees . conservatives now hold only a 5-4 edge . one slot is expected to go to eeoc chairman clarence thomas , a black conservative ; after mulling a fight , liberals now probably wo n't put up a major struggle against him . other conservatives thought to be on the administration 's short list include washington lawyer michael uhlmann , who was passed over for the no. 2 job at the justice department , and marshall breger , chairman of a u.s. agency on administration . the bush administration would also like to nominate a woman ; one possibility is former justice department official victoria toensing . minor memos : in the wake of the failed panama coup , a bumper sticker appears : `` ollie would have got him . '' ... rep. garcia , on trial for bribery and extortion , puts statements in the congressional record attributing missed votes to `` scheduling conflicts . '' ... a gop senate fund-raising letter from sen. burns of montana is made to appear personally written , and its opening line is , `` please excuse my handwriting . '' but burns confesses in an interview : `` that 's not my handwriting .