dennis farney 's oct. 13 page-one article `` river of despair , '' about the poverty along the mississippi , fanned childhood memories of when my parents were sharecroppers in southeastern arkansas , only a few miles from the river . although we were white , the same economic factors affected us as affects the black people 0 mr. farney writes about . fortunately , an aunt with a college degree bought a small farm and moved us 50 miles north to good schools and an environment that opened the world of opportunity for me as an eight-year-old . though i 've been blessed with academic degrees and some success in the materialistic world , i 've never forgotten or lost contact with those memories of the 1930s . most of the land in that and other parts of the delta are now owned by second , third or fourth generations of the same families . these are the families who used -- and sometime abused -- their sharecroppers , people who had no encouragement and little access to an education or training for a better life . following world war ii , when one family with mechanized equipment could farm crops formerly requiring 20 families , the surplus people were dumped into the mainstream of society with no social security , no skills in the workplace , no hope for their future except welfare . and today , many of their children , grandchildren and great-grandchildren remain on welfare . in the meantime , the landowners continue receiving generous subsidies that began during new deal days . or those who choose not to farm can lease their lands and crop allotments for handsome sums . farmers in the midwest and other areas have suffered , but those along the mississippi continue to prosper with holdings that were built with the sweat of men and women living in economic slavery . and when they were no longer needed , they were turned loose unprepared to build lives of their own . denton harris chairman metro bank atlanta because the cycle of poverty along the lower mississippi goes back so many generations , breaking this cycle will be next to impossible . sadly , the cycle appears not as waves but as a downward spiral . yet the evidence that we have not hit bottom is found in the fact that we are not yet helping ourselves . the people of the delta are waiting for that big factory 0 to open , river traffic 0 to increase , government spending 0 to fund job-training programs or public schools 0 to educate apathetic students . because we refuse to face the tough answers , the questions continue as fodder for the commissions and committees , for the media and politicians . coffee-shop chatter does not lend itself to solving the problems of racism , teen pregnancy or lack of parental support or guidance . does the delta deserve government help in attracting industry when the majority of residents , black and white , do not realize 0 racism alienates potential employers ? should we focus on the region 's infant-mortality rate when the vocal right-wingers and the school boards , mayors and legislators prohibit schools from teaching the two ways -lrb- abstinence or contraceptives -rrb- of decreasing teen pregnancy ? delta problems are difficult , not impossible , 0 to solve -- i am just not convinced that we are ready to solve them yet . leslie falls humphries little rock , ark . i would like to issue a challenge to corporate america . the next time 0 expansion plans are mentioned at the old company and somebody says , `` aw heck , guys , nobody can do it like japan or south korea , '' i wish 0 you would butt in and say , `` hold it , fellas , why do n't we compare prices and use our own little third world country . we would even save on freight . '' there is no mystery why the delta originated `` singin ' the blues . '' eugene s. clarke iv hollandale , miss . your story is an insult to the citizens of the mississippi delta . many of the problems 0 you presented exist in every part of this country . poverty is only two blocks from president bush 's residence . for years , we tried to ignore the problem of poverty , and now that it has gotten out of hand it 's a new crusade for the media and our democratic congress . nobody should have to live in such poor conditions as in `` sugar ditch , '' but when you travel to washington , boston , chicago or new york , the same problems exist . the only difference is , 0 in those cities the poor are housed in high-rise-project apartments each consisting of one room , with rusty pipes called plumbing , rodents and cockroaches everywhere and nonworking elevators -- and with the building patrolled by gangs and drug dealers . many middle-class people would love free food , medicaid insurance , utilities and rent . then maybe i could stay home and have seven children and watch oprah winfrey , like beulah in the article , instead of having one child and working constantly just to stay above water , like so many families in this country . dee ann wilson greenville , miss .