in the wake of a slide in sterling , a tailspin in the stock market , and a string of problematic economic indicators , british chancellor of the exchequer nigel lawson promised gradual improvement in the u.k. economy . in a speech prepared for delivery to london 's financial community , mr. lawson summed up current economic policy as a battle to wring inflation out of the british economy , using high interest rates as `` the essential instrument '' 0 to carry out the campaign . two weeks after boosting base rates to 15 % , he pledged that `` rates will have to remain high for some time 0 to come . '' mr. lawson also made it clear that he would be watching exchange rates carefully . a sinking pound makes imports more expensive and increases businesses ' expectations of future inflation , he argued 0 . in an apparent warning to currency traders who have lately been selling the british currency , he stated that the exchange rates will have a `` major role in the assessment of monetary conditions . '' in reaffirming the current monetary policy of using high interest rates to fight inflation and shore up the pound , mr. lawson dismissed other approaches to managing the economy . he said 0 he monitors the money-supply figures , but does n't give them paramount importance , as some private and government economists have suggested 0 . mr. lawson also dismissed the possibility of imposing direct credit controls on britain 's financial system . mr. lawson 's speech , delivered at the lord mayor of london 's annual dinner at mansion house , came on the heels of a grueling period for the u.k. economy . two weeks ago , in a campaign to blunt inflation at home and arrest a world-wide plunge in the pound , he raised base rates a full percentage point to 15 % . despite the increase , the british currency slid below a perceived threshold of three marks early last week . it was quoted at 2.9428 marks in late new york trading wednesday . leading up to the speech was a drumroll of economic statistics suggesting that the british war on inflation will be more bruising than previously assumed . unemployment in september dropped to 1,695,000 , the lowest level since 1980 . while lower joblessness is generally good news , the hefty drop last month indicates that the economy is n't slowing down as much as hoped 0 -- despite a doubling of interest rates over the last 16 months . meanwhile , average earnings in britain were up 8.75 % in august over the previous year . another inflationary sign came in a surge in building-society lending to a record # 10.2 billion -lrb- $ 16.22 billion -rrb- last month , a much higher level than economists had predicted . in a separate speech prepared for delivery at the dinner , robin leigh-pemberton , bank of england governor , conceded that `` demand pressures were even more buoyant than had been appreciated '' when the british economy was heating up last year . he added that `` there 's no quick-fix solution '' to the economic woes , and said 0 `` tight monetary policy is the right approach . '' discussing the recent slide in stock prices , the central bank governor stated that `` the markets now appear to have steadied '' after the `` nasty jolt '' of the 190.58-point plunge in the dow jones industrial average a week ago . although the new york market plunge prompted a 70.5-point drop in the london financial times-stock exchange 100 share index , mr. leigh-pemberton declared `` that the experience owed nothing to the particular problems of the british economy . '' specifically , he pointed out that compared with the u.s. market , the u.k. has far fewer highly leveraged junk-bond financings . discussing future monetary arrangements , mr. lawson repeated the thatcher government 's commitment to join the exchange rate mechanism of the european monetary system , but he did n't indicate when .