democracy can be cruel to politicians : sometimes it forces them to make choices . now that the supreme court opened the door on the subject of abortion , politicians are squinting under the glare of democratic choice . their discomfort is a healthy sign for the rest of us . republicans are squinting most painfully , at least at first , which is only fair because they 've been shielded the most . so long as abortion was a question for litigation , not legislation , republicans could find political security in absolutism . they could attract one-issue voters by adopting the right-to-life movement 's strongest position , even as pro-choice republicans knew 0 this mattered little on an issue monopolized by the court . now it matters . much of washington thought 0 it detected george bush in a characteristic waffle on abortion the past week . only a month ago he 'd warned congress not to pass legislation to pay for abortions in cases of rape or incest . last friday , after congress passed it anyway , he hinted 0 he was looking for compromise . was the man who once was pro-choice , but later pro-life , converting again ? in fact , mr. bush 's dance was more wiggle than waffle . pro-life advocates say 0 the white house never wavered over the veto . christopher smith -lrb- r. , n.j. -rrb- , a pro-life leader in the house , suggested a compromise that would have adapted restrictive language from rape and incest exceptions in the states . the white house , never eager for a fight , was happy to try , which is why george bush said 0 he was looking for `` flexibility '' last week . when democrats refused to budge , pro-life republicans met at the white house with chief of staff john sununu on monday , and mr. bush quickly signaled a veto . amid charges of `` timidity '' on panama and elsewhere , the president was n't about to offend his most energetic constituency . the gop doubters were in congress . in last week 's house vote , 41 republicans defected . after the vote , connecticut rep. nancy johnson rounded up nearly as many signatures on a letter to mr. bush urging him not to veto . even such a pro-life stalwart as sen. orrin hatch -lrb- r. , utah -rrb- had counseled some kind of compromise . the senate passed the same bill yesterday , with a veto-proof majority of 67 . the manuevering illustrates an emerging republican donnybrook , pacified since the early 1980s . at the 1988 gop convention , abortion was barely discussed at all , though delegates were evenly divided on the question of an anti-abortion constitutional amendment . ms. johnson made a passionate statement to the platform committee , but she was talking to herself . now many republicans are listening . they 're frightened by what they see in new jersey , and especially virginia , where pro-life gop candidates for governor are being pummeled on abortion . eddie mahe , a republican consultant , says 0 the two gop candidates could have avoided trouble if they had framed the issue first . -lrb- in virginia , marshall coleman and his running mate , eddy dalton , are both on the defensive for opposing abortions even in cases of rape or incest . -rrb- but mr. mahe adds , `` the net loser in the next few years is the right-to-life side . '' darla st. martin , of the national right to life committee , says 0 exit polls from the 1988 election had single-issue , pro-life voters giving mr. bush about five more percentage points of support than pro-choice voters gave michael dukakis . but the supreme court 's opening of debate may have changed even that . gop pollster neil newhouse , of the wirthlin group , says 0 polls this summer showed that the single-issue voters had about evened out . polls are no substitute for principle , but they 'll do for some politicians . the republican danger is 0 that abortion could become for them what it 's long been for democrats , a divisive litmus test . it 's already that in the bush administration , at least for any job in which abortion is even remotely an issue . oklahoma official robert fulton lost a chance for a senior job in the department of health and human services after right-to-life activists opposed him . caldwell butler , a conservative former congressman , was barred from a legal services post , after he gave wrong answers on abortion . even the president 's doctor , burton lee , has said on the record that he 'd love to be surgeon general but could n't pass the pro-life test . in the case of hhs secretary louis sullivan , the litmus test could yet damage issues important to other parts of the republican coalition . after mr. sullivan waffled on abortion last year , the white house appeased right-to-lifers by surrounding him with pro-life deputies . their views on health care and welfare did n't much matter , though hhs spends billions a year on both . it makes only a handful of abortion-related decisions . though democrats can gloat at all this for now , they may want to contain their glee . on abortion , their own day will come . eventually even republicans will find a way 0 to frame the issue in ways that expose pro-choice absolutism . does the candidate favor parental consent for teen-age abortions ? -lrb- the pro-choice lobby does n't . -rrb- what about banning abortions in the second and third trimesters ? -lrb- the lobby says no again . -rrb- democracy is forcing the abortion debate toward healthy compromise , toward the unpolarizing middle . roe v. wade pre-empted political debate , so the extremes blossomed . now the ambivalent middle , a moral majority of sorts , is reasserting itself . within a few years , the outcome in most states is likely to be that abortion will be more restricted , but not completely banned . this is where the voters are , which is where politicians usually end up .