domestic lending for real estate and property development was the source of bank bumiputra malaysia bhd. 's most recent spate of financial troubles , the institution 's executive chairman , mohamed basir ismail , said 0 . speaking to reporters this week after bank bumiputra 's shareholders approved a rescue plan , tan sri basir said 0 heavy lending to the property sector rocked the bank when property prices in malaysia plummeted in 1984-85 . he said 0 the bank could n't wait any longer for prices to recover and for borrowers to service their loans . so the bank 's board decided to make 1.23 billion malaysian dollars -lrb- us$ 457 million -rrb- in provisions for interest payments from loans previously recorded as revenue but never actually received by the bank , and to submit a bailout package 0 to replenish the bank 's paid-up capital . the predicament , he added 0 , was similar to the hong kong 1982-83 property-price collapse , which exposed the involvement of bank bumiputra 's former subsidiary in the colony in the largest banking scandal in malaysia 's history . the subsidiary , bumiputra malaysia finance ltd. , was left with m$ 2.26 billion in bad loans made to hong kong property speculators . both episodes wiped out bank bumiputra 's shareholders ' funds . each time , the bank 's 90 % shareholder -- petroliam nasional bhd. , or petronas , the national oil company -- has been called upon to rescue the institution . in five years , petronas , which became the dominant shareholder in a 1984 rescue exercise , has spent about m$ 3.5 billion to prop up the troubled bank . tan sri basir said 0 the capital restructuring plan has been approved by malaysia 's capital issues committee and central bank . malaysia 's high court is expected to approve the plan . once the plan is approved , tan sri basir said 0 , most of bank bumiputra 's nonperforming loans will have been fully provided for and the bank will be on track 0 to report a pretax profit of between m$ 160 million and m$ 170 million for the fiscal year ending march 31 . for the previous financial year , the bank would have reported a pretax profit of m$ 168 million if it had n't made provisions for the nonperforming loans , he said 0 . malaysia 's banking secrecy act prohibited the bank from identifying delinquent borrowers , said 0 tan sri basir . but public documents indicate 0 10 % or more of the bank 's provisions were made for foregone interest on a m$ 200 million loan to malaysia 's dominant political party , the united malays national organization , 0 to build its convention and headquarters complex in kuala lumpur . the loan to umno was made in september 1983 . `` we lent a lot of money all over the place , '' said tan sri basir , who refused to discuss the bank 's outstanding loans to as well as the m$ 1.23 billion in provisions announced on oct. 6 , the restructuring package covers an additional m$ 450 million in provisions made in earlier years but never reflected in a reduction of the bank 's paid-up capital . at the end of the exercise , the cash injection from petronas will increase the bank 's paid-up capital to m$ 1.15 billion after virtually being wiped out by the new provisions .