after slipping on news of a smaller-than-expected u.s. inflation figure , the dollar rebounded later in the trading day . the u.s. unit dipped to a session low against the mark just after the release of the u.s. consumer price index . the report showed that september consumer prices rose just 0.2 % , a smaller increase than expected . the market had anticipated a 0.4 % rise in the price index . the september index fueled speculation , damaging to the dollar , that the federal reserve soon will ease monetary policy further . but foreign-exchange dealers said 0 the dollar staged a quick comeback , prompted by a round of short covering and some fresh buying interest later in the trading day . traders said that a nearly 40-point gain in the dow jones industrial average , fueled in part by news of a lower-than-expected price index , had little influence on the dollar 's moves . `` the market is beginning to disassociate itself from wall street , '' said one new york trader . in late new york trading yesterday , the dollar was quoted at 1.8470 marks , down from 1.8485 marks late wednesday , and at 141.70 yen , up from 141.45 yen late wednesday . sterling was quoted at $ 1.5990 , up from $ 1.5920 late wednesday . in tokyo friday , the u.s. currency opened for trading at 141.93 yen , up from thursday 's tokyo close of 141.55 yen . some analysts said 0 the consumer price index reflects a more significant slowdown in the u.s. economy than earlier indicated . they point out that september 's producer-price index showed a 0.9 % increase . they noted that because the consumer price index , known as the cpi , is a more comprehensive measure of inflation and is rising less rapidly than the producer-price index , or ppi , it could signal further easing by fed . others suggested , however , that the fed will hold any changes in monetary policy in check , leaving fed funds at around 8 3\/4 % , down from the 9 % level that prevailed from july through september . kevin logan , chief economist with the swiss bank corp. , said that both ppi and cpi climbed around 4 1\/2 % year-to-year in september . he argued that both cpi and ppi have in fact decelerated since spring . `` the fed wo n't be stampeded into easing , '' mr. logan said , predicting that for now , interest rates will stay where they are . a four-day matched sale-purchase agreement , a move to drain liquidity from the system , was viewed as a technical move , rather than an indication of tightening credit . market participants note that the mark continues to post heftier gains against its u.s. counterpart than any other major currency , particularly the yen . `` there 's a bottomless pit of dollar demand '' by japanese investors , said 0 graham beale , managing director of foreign exchange at hongkong & shanghai banking corp. in new york , adding that purely speculative demand would n't hold the dollar at its recent levels against the japanese currency . mr. beale commented that the mark remains well bid against other currencies as well . robert white , manager of corporate trading at first interstate of california , called the market `` psychologically pro-mark , '' noting that the u.s. remains a `` veritable grab bag '' for japanese investors which accounts for the unabated demand for u.s. dollars . on the commodity exchange in new york , gold dropped $ 1.60 to $ 367.10 an ounce in moderate trading . estimated volume was three million ounces . in early trading in hong kong friday , gold was at about $ 366.85 an ounce .