the surprise resignations of two top economic government officials heaped more uncertainty on london 's financial markets , which already have been laboring under worries about britain 's ailing economy . `` the last thing 0 markets like is uncertainty , '' said ian harwood , chief economist at s.g. warburg & co. , of the resignations of chancellor of the exchequer nigel lawson and chief economic adviser sir alan walters . `` i think 0 you 'll see share prices go down , and sterling now is under something of a cloud . '' the pound immediately began to take a buffetting after the resignations were announced . in late new york trading , sterling stood at $ 1.5765 , down from $ 1.6145 late wednesday . the british economy is hardly the picture of health these days . at 15 % , base interest rates are the highest in eight years , and the 7.6 % annual inflation rate is by far the highest in the european community . unions are pressing demands for wage increases of more than 10 % despite general belief that economic growth next year will be less than 2 % . increasingly , the financial markets are reflecting the gloom . the financial times 100-share index has dropped about 12 % from its 1989 high of 2423.9 on sept. 8 . yesterday , even before the resignations were announced , the index dove 32.5 points to close at 2129.4 . `` we are expecting a recession , '' says donald franklin , chief economist at schroders investment bank . `` the only question is , how deep is it going to be ? the outlook for corporate earnings is fairly bleak . it 's quite likely 0 we 're going to get repeats '' of the mid-october market shocks . red ink already has begun to flow in the wake of the u.s.-u.k. market breaks of oct. 13 and oct. 16 . london-based lit holdings , the largest financer of traders in the chicago options and futures markets , said yesterday 0 it will incur a second-half loss as a result of the market plunge . the company , which also will omit its second-half dividend , did n't specify the size . but company insiders estimated that the loss could approach the equivalent of $ 10 million . christopher castleman , lit chief executive , said in an interview that the loss stemmed from the default of three options traders who had bet on a price rise in ual corp. shares before oct. 13 . the price plummeted after a proposed leveraged buy-out of the airline fell through . lit holdings shares plummeted 36 pence to close at 54 pence -lrb- 85 cents -rrb- , a 40 % drop , on london 's stock exchange . denizens of london 's financial district are cushioning themselves for heavy blows . `` a lot more of our customers are staying until our 10 p.m. closing time , '' says christopher brown , managing director of corney & barrow restaurants ltd. , which runs five tony wine bars in the district . `` there 's a strong sense among the martini set that there 's more -lcb- bad news -rcb- 0 to come , '' asserts roger yates , chief investment officer at morgan grenfell asset management . `` people in the stock market were very much thatcher 's children -- very young and wealthy optimists . now it 's dawning on them that they can be non-wealthy . '' the malaise has created a nostalgic longing for the uncomplicated days of the mid-1980s , before a rash of securities-firm mergers on the eve of the industry 's deregulation in 1986 . `` people come to us saying 0 they 'd like to be back where they were a few years ago , in a more collegial atmosphere , with less tension , '' says stephen waterhouse , managing director of hanover partners ltd. , a financial district head-hunting firm . but after trading losses in the mid-october market jolts here , many people will be lucky to have jobs at all , executives predict 0 . the industry , which currently employs about 25,000 people in london , has shed about 2,500 jobs over the past two years . `` i can see cuts of at least 20 % more , '' says the head of the london office of a major u.s. firm . the mergers and acquisitions market has been a saving grace for the industry , but uncertainties are beginning to mount even there . intra-european takeovers are expected to continue at their brisk pace . but investment bankers say that stock market uncertainties in the u.s. may cause many european companies to mark time before bidding for american companies , in the hope that share prices will come down . `` if prices in the states go down , industrial buyers in europe have the opportunity of getting reasonable prices in the u.s. , '' says francois von hurter , chief of continential m&a at credit suisse first boston ltd . but he adds : `` everybody and his sister have opened up m&a shops . it 's difficult to see that there 's going to be enough business 0 to go around . about eight firms will get the lion 's share . at the others , there are going to be a lot of disappointments , after all those promises and all that big money that 's been paid to people . '' it all adds up to a cold winter here . says allen d. wheat , head of trading at bankers trust co. : `` people are just plain scared . '' one person who is past worrying about london 's blues is christopher hartley . last summer , he chucked his 10-year career as a london stockbroker and headed for the mountains . he did n't stop until he got to jackson hole , wyo . `` i 'm glad to be out , '' said the 32-year-old mr. hartley in a phone interview . `` the percentage of your day spent twiddling your thumbs got greater , and the work day kept getting longer . what am i doing in jackson hole ? not a great deal . my wife and i will stay through the skiing season , or until the money runs out -- whichever comes first . but unlike london , out here i 've never heard anybody blow a car horn in anger .