when the economy stumbled in the mid-1970s , akzo nv fell out of bed . towering overcapacity in the synthetic fiber business , which accounted for half of the dutch chemical company 's sales , led to huge losses and left akzo 's survival in doubt . it was n't until the early 1980s that akzo nursed itself back to health . now , as a new downturn in the chemical industry looms , akzo says 0 it is in far better shape 0 to cope . investment analysts generally agree . aside from slashing costs and investing heavily in its plants , akzo has spent 3.9 billion guilders -lrb- $ 1.88 billion -rrb- on acquisitions since 1983 to give it better balance . during the same period , the company has sold about 1.6 billion guilders of assets . the fibers business , whose products go into textiles , carpeting and myriad industrial uses , now accounts for only 20 % of akzo 's sales . `` we have definitely become less cyclical , '' syb bergsma , executive vice president-finance , said in an interview . still , akzo has n't yet found a way 0 to achieve another goal : a large presence in the u.s. market for prescription drugs . mr. bergsma said 0 prices for u.s. pharmaceutical companies remain too high , making it unlikely that akzo will pursue any major acquisitions in that area . but he said 0 akzo is considering `` alliances '' with american drug companies , although he would n't elaborate . an indication of akzo 's success in reshaping itself will come thursday when it reports third-quarter results . analysts expect the company to show profit of about 225 million guilders , up 9 % from 206.3 million guilders a year earlier . a bigger test will come next year if , as many analysts expect , bulk chemical prices slump in europe . `` maybe akzo can surprise the investment world a bit , '' said jaap visker , an analyst at amsterdam-rotterdam bank nv . he figures 0 akzo is likely to be one of the few major chemical companies 0 to show profit growth next year . the bank projects 0 akzo will show per-share earnings of 24 guilders in 1990 , up from an estimated 22.5 guilders for this year and the 20.9 guilders reported for 1988 . at james capel & co. in london , analyst jackie ashurst notes that akzo is less exposed than many of its rivals to the most volatile chemical products . for example , akzo has only minor petrochemical operations , is small in plastics and does n't make fertilizers . thus , while akzo profited less than many rivals from the boom of recent years in petrochemicals and plastics , it has less 0 to fear from the current slump . the company is exposed to bulk chemicals , however . although bulk-chemical prices have begun falling in the u.s. , they are generally stable in europe , mr. bergsma said 0 . a decline may come in the first half of 1990 , he said 0 , but the market does n't appear on the verge of a severe downturn . to reduce the danger of such pricing cycles , akzo has invested heavily in specialty chemicals , which have highly specific industrial uses and tend to produce much higher profit margins than do bulk chemicals . akzo 's biggest move in this area was the 1987 acquisition of stauffer chemical co. 's specialty chemical business for $ 625 million . in a less glamorous field , akzo is the world 's biggest producer of industrial salt , used as a raw material for the chemical industry as well as for such tasks as melting ice . akzo also makes products derived from salt , such as chlorine and caustic soda . in the fibers division , profit remains weak , largely because of persistent overcapacity . but akzo is still slimming down : it recently announced plans to eliminate about 1,700 fiber-related jobs in the netherlands and west germany . although the polyester and rayon markets remain mostly bleak , akzo has high hopes for some emerging fiber businesses , such carbon fibers and aramid , extremely strong fibers used to reinforce tires and metals and to make such products as bullet-proof vests . akzo 's twaron aramid fiber is a distant second to du pont co. 's kevlar , which dominates the market . mr. bergsma said 0 world-wide industry sales of aramid fibers are expected to total about $ 500 million this year . sales growth of 10 % a year seems possible , he said 0 , and akzo expects its twaron business to become profitable in 1990 . akzo also has spent heavily on acquisitions in paints , auto finishes and industrial coatings . in august , for example , it completed the $ 110 million acquisition of reliance universal inc. , a u.s. maker of industrial coatings for wood , metals and plastics , from tyler corp . mr. bergsma said 0 akzo is likely to see strong profit growth from coatings as it realizes cost savings and other benefits from its greater scale . for akzo 's drug business , where profits have shown litle change for the past five years , mr. bergsma predicted moderate profit growth . akzo is the leading seller of birth-control pills in europe but is still seeking regulatory approvals to enter that market in the u.s. and japan . mr. bergsma said 0 akzo hopes to have approval to sell its marvelon pill in the u.s. in 1992 . akzo also has small operations in diagnostic tests , generic drugs and veterinary products . veterinary products are showing especially strong growth , mr. bergsma said 0 . among the leading products is a flu shot for horses .