time warner inc. is considering a legal challenge to tele-communications inc. 's plan to buy half of showtime networks inc. , a move that could lead to all-out war between the cable industry 's two most powerful players . time is also fighting the transaction on other fronts , by attempting to discourage other cable operators from joining tele-communications as investors in showtime , cable-tv industry executives say 0 . time officials declined to comment . last week , tele-communications agreed to pay viacom inc. $ 225 million for a 50 % stake in its showtime subsidiary , which is a distant second to time 's home box office in the delivery of pay-tv networks to cable subscribers . tele-communications , the u.s. 's largest cable company , said 0 it may seek other cable partners 0 to join in its investment . tele-communications is hbo 's largest customer , and the two have a number of other business relationships . earlier this year , time even discussed bringing tele-communications in as an investor in hbo , executives at both companies said 0 . the purchase of the showtime stake is `` a direct slap in our face , '' said 0 one senior time executive . time is expected to mount a legal challenge in u.s. district court in new york , where viacom in may filed a $ 2.5 billion antitrust suit charging time and hbo with monopolizing the pay-tv business and trying to crush competition from showtime . executives involved in plotting time 's defense say 0 it is now preparing a countersuit naming both viacom and tele-communications as defendants . the executives say 0 time may seek to break up the transaction after it is consummated , or may seek constraints that would prevent tele-communications from dropping hbo in any of its cable systems in favor of showtime . viacom officials declined to comment . jerome kern , tele-communications ' chief outside counsel , said 0 he was n't aware of time 's legal plans . but he said that any effort by time to characterize the tele-communications investment in showtime as anti-competitive would be `` the pot calling the kettle black . '' `` it 's hard to see how an investment by the largest -lcb- cable operator -rcb- in the weaker of the two networks is anti-competitive , when the stronger of the two networks is owned by the second largest '' cable operator , mr. kern said . in addition to owning hbo , with 22 million subscribers , time warner separately operates cable-tv system serving about 5.6 million cable-tv subscribers . tele-communications controls close to 12 million cable subscribers , and viacom has about one million . in its suit against time , viacom says 0 the ownership of both cable systems and cable-programming networks gives the company too much market power . time argues that in joining up with tele-communications , viacom has potentially more power , particularly since viacom also owns cable networks mtv , vh-1 and nick at nite . ironically , tele-communications and time have often worked closely in the cable business . together , they control nearly 40 % of turner broadcasting systems inc. ; tele-communications has a 21.8 % stake , while time warner has a 17.8 % stake . but since time 's merger with warner communications inc. , relations between the two have become strained . each company worries that the other is becoming too powerful and too vertically integrated . meanwhile , some legal observers say 0 the tele-communications investment and other developments are weakening viacom 's antitrust suit against time . viacom accuses time in its suit of refusing to carry showtime or a sister service , the movie channel , on time 's manhattan cable tv system , one of the nation 's largest urban systems . but yesterday , manhattan cable announced 0 it will launch showtime on nov. 1 to over 230,000 subscribers . showtime has also accused hbo of locking up the lion 's share of hollywood 's movies by signing exclusive contracts with all the major studios . but showtime has continued to sign new contracts with hollywood studios , and yesterday announced 0 it will buy movies from columbia pictures entertainment inc. , which currently has a non-exclusive arrangement with hbo .