nothing was going to hold up the long-delayed settlement of britton vs. thomasini . not even an earthquake . on the afternoon of oct. 17 , after hours of haggling with five insurance-claims adjusters over settling a toxic-waste suit , four lawyers had an agreement in hand . but as judge thomas m. jenkins donned his robes so he could give final approval , the major earthquake struck , its epicenter not far from his courtroom in redwood city , calif . the walls shook ; the building rocked . for a while , it looked like the deal -- not to mention the courtroom itself -- was on the verge of collapse . `` the judge came out and said , ` quick , let 's put this on the record , ' '' says sandy bettencourt , the judge 's court reporter . `` i said , ` now ? ' i was shaking the whole time . '' a 10-gallon water cooler had toppled onto the floor , soaking the red carpeting . lights flickered on and off ; plaster dropped from the ceiling , the walls still shook and an evacuation alarm blared outside . the four lawyers climbed out from under a table . `` let 's close the door , '' said the judge as he climbed to his bench . at stake was an $ 80,000 settlement involving who should pay what share of cleanup costs at the site of a former gas station , where underground fuel tanks had leaked and contaminated the soil . and the lawyers were just as eager as the judge to wrap it up . `` we were never going to get these insurance companies to agree again , '' says john v. trump , a san francisco defense lawyer in the case . indeed , the insurance adjusters had already bolted out of the courtroom . the lawyers went to work anyway , duly noting that the proceeding was taking place during a major earthquake . ten minutes later , it was done . for the record , jeffrey kaufman , an attorney for fireman 's fund , said 0 he was `` rattled -- both literally and figuratively . '' `` my belief is always , 0 if you 've got a settlement , you read it into the record . '' says judge jenkins , now known in his courthouse as `` shake 'em down jenkins . '' the insurance adjusters think differently . `` i did n't know if it was world war iii or what , '' says melanie carvain of morristown , n.j . `` reading the settlement into the record was the last thing on my mind .