courtaulds plc announced plans to spin off its textiles operations to existing shareholders in a restructuring to boost shareholder value . the british chemical and textile company 's plan , which requires shareholder approval , would create a new , listed u.k. stock with a probable market capitalization between # 300 million -lrb- $ 473 million -rrb- and # 400 million , analysts said 0 . the establishment of the separate company , 0 to be called courtaulds textiles , could be effective as early as next year 's first quarter . investors welcomed the move . courtaulds ' shares rose 15 pence to 362 pence , valuing the entire company at about # 1.44 billion . courtaulds ' spinoff reflects pressure on british industry to boost share prices beyond the reach of corporate raiders . courtaulds ' restructuring is among the largest thus far in britain , though it is dwarfed by b.a.t industries plc 's plans to spin off roughly # 4 billion in assets to help fend off a takeover bid from anglo-french financier sir james goldsmith . the divested courtaulds textile operations had operating profit of # 50 million on # 980 million in revenue in the year ended march 31 . some analysts have said 0 courtaulds ' moves could boost the company 's value by 5 % to 10 % , because the two entities separately will carry a higher price earnings multiple than they did combined . in addition , courtaulds said 0 the moves are logical because they will allow both the chemicals and textile businesses to focus more closely on core activities . courtaulds has been under pressure to enhance shareholder value since takeover speculators -- including australian financier kerry packer -- surfaced holding small stakes last year . though mr. packer has since sold his stake , courtaulds is moving to keep its institutional shareholders happy . even without a specific takeover threat , courtaulds is giving shareholders `` choice and value , '' said 0 julia blake , an analyst at london stockbrokers barclays de zoete wedd . in a statement , the company said : `` both parts can only realize their full potential and be appropriately valued by the market if they are separately quoted companies . the sharper definition and the autonomy which each will thereby gain will benefit shareholders , customers and employees . '' courtaulds chairman and chief executive sir christopher hogg will remain in both posts at the surviving chemical company after the spinoff .