heidi ehman might have stepped from a recruiting poster for young republicans . white , 24 years old , a singer in her church choir , she symbolizes a generation that gave its heart and its vote to ronald reagan . `` i felt kind of safe , '' she says . no longer . when the supreme court opened the door this year to new restrictions on abortion , ms. ehman opened her mind to democratic politics . then a political novice , she stepped into a whirl of `` pro-choice '' marches , house parties and fund-raisers . now she leads a grassroots abortion-rights campaign in passaic county for pro-choice democratic gubernatorial candidate james florio . `` this is one where i cross party lines , '' she says , rejecting the anti-abortion stance of rep. florio 's opponent , reagan-republican rep. james courter . `` people my age thought 0 it was n't going to be an issue . now it has -- especially for people my age . '' polls bear out this warning , but after a decade of increased republican influence here , the new politics of abortion have contributed to a world turned upside down for mr. courter . unless he closes the gap , republicans risk losing not only the governorship but also the assembly next month . going into the 1990s , the gop is paying a price for the same conservative social agenda that it used to torment democrats in the past . this change comes less from a shift in public opinion , which has n't changed much on abortion over the past decade , than in the boundaries of the debate . new jersey 's own highest court remains a liberal bulwark against major restrictions on abortion , but the u.s. supreme court ruling , webster vs. missouri , has engaged voters across the nation who had been insulated from the issue . before july , pro-choice voters could safely make political decisions without focusing narrowly on abortion . now , the threat of further restrictions adds a new dimension , bringing an upsurge in political activity by abortion-rights forces . a recent pro-choice rally in trenton drew thousands , and in a major reversal , congress is defying a presidential veto and demanding that medicaid abortions be permitted in cases of rape and incest . `` if webster had n't happened , you would n't be here , '' linda bowker tells a reporter in the trenton office of the national organization for women . `` we could have shouted from the rooftops about courter ... and no one would have heard us . '' new jersey is a proving ground for this aggressive women's-rights movement this year . the infusion of activists can bring a clash of cultures . in cherry hill , the national abortion rights action league , whose goal is to sign up 50,000 pro-choice voters , targets a union breakfast to build labor support for its cause . the league organizers seem more a fit with a convention next door of young aerobics instructors in leotards than the beefy union leaders ; `` i wish 0 i could go work out , '' says a slim activist . a labor chief speaks sardonically of having to `` man and woman '' election day phones . no age group is more sensitive than younger voters , like ms. ehman . a year ago this fall , new jersey voters under 30 favored george bush by 56 % to 39 % over michael dukakis , according to a survey then by rutgers university 's eagleton institute . a matching eagleton-newark star ledger poll last month showed a complete reversal . voters in the same age group backed democrat florio 55 % to 29 % over republican courter . abortion alone ca n't explain this shift , but new jersey is a model of how so personal an issue can become a baseline of sorts in judging a candidate . by a 2-to-1 ratio , voters appear more at ease with mr. florio 's stance on abortion , and polls indicate 0 his lead widens when the candidates are specifically linked to the issue . `` the times are my times , '' says mr. florio . the camden county congressman still carries himself with a trademark `` i'm-coming-down-your-throat '' intensity , but at a pause in newark 's columbus day parade recently , he was dancing with his wife in the middle of the avenue in the city 's old italian-american ward . after losing by fewer than 1,800 votes in the 1981 governor 's race , he has prepared himself methodically for this moment , including deciding in recent years 0 he could no longer support curbs on federal funding for medicaid abortions . `` if you 're going to be consistent and say 0 it is a constitutionally protected right , '' he asks , `` how are you going to say 0 an upscale woman who can drive to the hospital or clinic in a nice car has a constitutional right and someone who is not in great shape financially does not ? '' mr. courter , by comparison , seems a shadow of the confident hawk who defended oliver north before national cameras at iran-contra hearings two years ago . looking back , he says 0 he erred by stating his `` personal '' opposition to abortion instead of assuring voters that he would n't impose his views on `` policy '' as governor . it is a distinction that satisfies neither side in the debate . `` he does n't know himself , '' kathy stanwick of the abortion rights league says of mr. courter 's position . even abortion opponents , however angry with mr. florio , ca n't hide their frustration with the republican 's ambivalence . `` he does n't want to lead the people , '' says richard traynor , president of new jersey right to life . moreover , by stepping outside the state 's pro-choice tradition , mr. courter aggravates fears that he is too conservative as well on more pressing concerns such as auto insurance rates and the environment . he hurt himself further this summer by bringing homosexual issues into the debate ; and by wavering on this issue and abortion , he has weakened his credibility in what is already a mean-spirited campaign on both sides . elected to congress in 1978 , the 48-year-old mr. courter is part of a generation of young conservatives who were once very much in the lead of the rightward shift under mr. reagan . like many of his colleagues , he did n't serve in vietnam in the 1960s yet embraced a hawkish defense and foreign policy -- even voting against a 1984 resolution critical of the u.s. mining of nicaraguan harbors . jack kemp and the writers irving kristol and george gilder were influences , and mr. courter 's own conservative credentials proved useful to the current new jersey gop governor , thomas kean , in the 1981 republican primary here . the same partnership is now crucial to mr. courter 's fortunes , but the abortion issue is only a reminder of the gap between his record and that of the more moderate , pro-choice gov. kean . while the warren county congressman pursued an anti-government , anti-tax agenda in washington , gov. kean was approving increased income and sales taxes at home and overseeing a near doubling in the size of new jersey 's budget in his eight years in office . kean forces play down any differences with mr. courter , but this history makes it harder for the conservative to run against government . mr. courter 's free-market plan to bring down auto insurance rates met criticism from gov. kean 's own insurance commissioner . mr. courter is further hobbled by a record of votes opposed to government regulation on behalf of consumers . fluent in spanish from his days in the peace corps , mr. courter actively courts minority voters but seems oddly over his head . he is warm and polished before a puerto rican congress in asbury park . yet minutes after promising to appoint hispanics to high posts in state government , he is unable to say whether he has ever employed any in his congressional office . `` i do n't think 0 we do now , '' he says . `` i think 0 we did . '' asked the same question after his appearance , democrat florio identifies a staff member by name and explains her whereabouts today . when he is presented with a poster celebrating the organization 's 20th anniversary , he recognizes a photograph of one of the founders and recalls time spent together in camden . details and camden are essential florio . elected to congress as a `` watergate baby '' in 1974 , he ran for governor three years later . in the opinion of many , he has n't stopped running since , even though he declined a rematch with gov. kean in 1985 . his base in south jersey and on the house energy and commerce committee helped him sustain a network of political-action committees 0 to preserve his edge . with limited budgets for television in a high-priced market , mr. florio 's higher recognition than his rival is a major advantage . more than ever , his pro-consumer and pro-environment record is in sync with the state . auto insurance rates are soaring . a toxic-waste-dump fire destroyed part of an interstate highway this summer . in monmouth , an important swing area , republican freeholders now run on a slogan promising to keep the county `` clean and green . '' mr. florio savors this vindication , but at age 52 , the congressman is also a product of his times and losses . he speaks for the death penalty as if reading from exodus 21 ; to increase state revenue he focuses not on `` taxes '' but on `` audits '' 0 to cut waste . hard-hitting consultants match ads with mr. courter 's team , and mr. florio retools himself as the lean , mean democratic fighting machine of the 1990s . appealing to a young audience , he scraps an old reference to ozzie and harriet and instead quotes the grateful dead . the lyric chosen -- `` long strange night '' -- may be an apt footnote to television spots by both candidates intended to portray each other as a liar . the democratic lawmaker fits a pattern of younger reformers arising out of old machines , but his ties to camden remain a sore point because of the county 's past corruption . his campaign hierarchy is chosen from elsewhere in the state , and faced with criticism of a sweetheart bank investment , he has so far blunted the issue by donating the bulk of his profits to his alma mater , trenton state college . mr. florio 's forcefulness on the abortion issue after the webster ruling divides some of his old constituency . pasquale pignatelli , an unlikely but enthusiastic pipe major in an essex county irish bagpipe band , speaks sadly of mr. florio . `` i am a devout catholic , '' says mr. pignatelli , a 40-year-old health officer . `` i ca n't support him because of abortion . '' bill wames sr. , 72 , is catholic too , but unfazed by mr. florio 's stand on abortion . a security guard at a cargo terminal , he wears a sons of italy jacket and cap celebrating `` the us 1 band . '' `` i still think 0 the woman has the right to do with her body as she pleases , '' he says . `` if you want more opinions ask my wife . she has lots of opinions .