investors in the over-the-counter market dumped banking and insurance issues , sending the nasdaq composite index lower for the third consecutive session . all nasdaq industry indexes finished lower , with financial issues hit the hardest . despite some early computer-guided program buying , the nasdaq composite fell 1.39 to 451.37 . the otc market now has declined in eight of the past 11 sessions . the nasdaq bank index fell 5.00 to 432.61 , while the insurance index fell 3.56 to 528.56 , and the `` other finance '' index dropped 3.27 to 529.32 . the largest financial issues , as measured by the nasdaq financial index , tumbled 3.23 to meanwhile , the index of the 100 biggest non-financial stocks , the nasdaq 100 , gained 0.47 to 438.15 . profit-taking accounted for much of the slide in otc stock prices , according to david mills , senior vice president of boston company advisers . he said 0 many portfolio managers , whose year-end bonuses are tied to annual performance , are selling now rather than risk seeing their gains erode further . `` the profit locking-in is definitely going on , '' said mr. mills , whose firm manages $ 600 million for boston co . tax-loss sellers , those investors who sell loss-making stocks so they can deduct their losses from this year 's income , are also getting out , mr. mills said 0 . that 's helping put pressure on both the market 's winners and its losers . `` the stocks that have been the best are having big pullbacks , and the ones that have been the worst are getting clobbered , '' mr. mills said . he expects the market to sink further and to reach a low sometime next month or in december . the selling by money managers and individual investors is turning traders bearish as well . `` we are advising a lot of our clients to make moves that make sense to them , rather than waiting until the last minute , because things have been so volatile , '' said william sulya , head of otc trading at a.g. edwards & sons in st. louis . ralph costanza , head of the otc trading department at smith barney , harris upham , said 0 many market players are awaiting some resolution of the current debate over program trading . much of the market 's recent volatility has been blamed on this large-scale computerized trading technique that can send stock prices surging or plummeting in a matter of minutes . the problem has been particularly damaging to the otc market , traditionally a base for the small investor . weisfield 's surged 14 to 53 after agreeing in principle to be acquired by a unit of ratners group for $ 50 a share . the stock jumped 9 1\/2 friday , when the company announced 0 it was in takeover talks . ratners and weisfield 's said 0 they expect to sign definitive agreements shortly and to complete the transaction by dec. 15 . mid-state federal savings bank advanced 1 1\/2 to 20 1\/4 after it said 0 it is in talks with a possible acquirer . the bank said 0 the talks resulted from solicitations by its financial adviser . jaguar assumed its recently customary place on the otc most active list as its american depository receipts gained 1\/4 to 11 7\/8 on volume of 1.2 million shares and daimler-benz joined the list of companies interested in the british car maker . daimler said 0 it has had talks with jaguar about possible joint ventures . meanwhile , general motors and ford motor continue their pursuit of the company . ford has acquired more than 13 % of jaguar 's shares , and gm has received u.s. regulatory clearance to buy 15 % . showbiz pizza time gained 1 1\/2 to 13 . the company reported third-quarter operating profit of 37 cents a share , compared with 12 cents a share a year earlier . a third-quarter charge of $ 3.5 million related to planned restaurant closings resulted in a net loss for the quarter . employers casualty , which reported a $ 53.9 million third-quarter loss late friday , fell 2 1\/4 to 13 3\/4 . the loss was largely due to a $ 55.2 million addition to reserves . employers casualty had a loss of $ 3.6 million in the year-earlier quarter . old stone fell 1 5\/8 to 13 1\/2 . late friday , the company reported a loss of $ 51.3 million for the third quarter after earning $ 9.2 million a year before . the loss came after a $ 23.3 million addition to loan-loss reserves . the bank made a $ 4.5 million provision in the 1988 quarter . old stone repeated projections that it will be profitable for the fourth quarter and will about break even for the year . abraham lincoln federal savings bank sank 4 to 13 1\/2 after announcing a shakeup that will change senior management and reorganize the bank 's mortgage business as a separate unit . the bank also said 0 it will establish a loan-loss reserve of $ 2.5 million to $ 4 million against a construction loan that is in default . the bank , which previously said 0 it was for sale , said 0 it has received no offers and that its board will review whether to continue soliciting bids .