wall street 's big securities firms face the prospect of having their credit ratings lowered . the reason : risks from the firms ' new `` merchant banking '' activities are rising as revenue from the industry 's traditional business erodes . the downgrading of debt issued by cs first boston inc. , parent of first boston corp. , by moody 's investors service inc. , coupled with a moody 's announcement that shearson lehman hutton holdings inc. is under review for a possible downgrade , sent shivers through the brokerage community this week . with the shudders came the realization that some of wall street 's biggest players are struggling to maintain the stellar credit standing required to finance their activities profitably . securities firms are among the biggest issuers of commercial paper , or short-term corporate ious , which they sell to finance their daily operations . the biggest firms still retain the highest ratings on their commercial paper . but moody 's warned that shearson 's commercial paper rating could be lowered soon , a move that would reduce shearson 's profit margins on its borrowings and signal trouble ahead for other firms . shearson is 62%-owned by american express co . `` just as the 1980s bull market transformed the u.s. securities business , so too will the more difficult environment of the 1990s , '' says christopher t. mahoney , a moody 's vice president . `` a sweeping restructuring of the industry is possible . '' standard & poor 's corp. says 0 first boston , shearson and drexel burnham lambert inc. , in particular , are likely to have difficulty shoring up their credit standing in months ahead . what worries credit-rating concerns the most is that wall street firms are taking long-term risks with their own capital via leveraged buy-out and junk bond financings . that 's a departure from their traditional practice of transferring almost all financing risks to investors . whereas conventional securities financings are structured to be sold quickly , wall street 's new penchant for leveraged buy-outs and junk bonds is resulting in long-term lending commitments that stretch out for months or years . `` the recent disarray in the junk bond market suggests that brokers may become longer-term creditors than they anticipated and may face long delays '' in getting their money back , says 0 jeffrey bowman , a vice president at s&p , which raised a warning flag for the industry in april when it downgraded cs first boston . `` wall street is facing a catch-22 situation , '' says mr. mahoney of moody 's . merchant banking , where firms commit their own money , `` is getting riskier , and there 's less of it 0 to go around . '' in addition , he says , the buy-out business is under pressure `` because of the junk bond collapse , '' meaning that returns are likely to decline as the volume of junk-bond financings shrinks . in a leveraged buy-out , a small group of investors acquires a company in a transaction financed largely by borrowing , with the expectation that the debt will be paid with funds generated by the acquired company 's operations or sales of its assets . in a recent report , moody 's said 0 it `` expects intense competition to occur through the rest of the century in the securities industry , which , combined with overcapacity , will create poor prospects for profitability . '' it said that the `` temptation for managements to ease this profit pressure by taking greater risks is an additional rating factor . '' both moody 's and s&p cited first boston 's reliance in recent years on merchant banking , which has been responsible for a significant portion of the closely held firm 's profit . the recent cash squeeze at campeau corp. , first boston 's most lucrative client of the decade , is proving costly to first boston because it arranged more than $ 3 billion of high-yield , high-risk junk financings for campeau units . in addition , a big loan that first boston made to ohio mattress co . was n't repaid on time when its $ 450 million junk financing for a buy-out of the bedding company was withdrawn . `` these two exposures alone represent a very substantial portion of cs first boston 's equity , '' moody 's said . `` total merchant banking exposures are in excess of the firm 's equity . '' cs first boston , however , benefits from the backing of its largest shareholder , credit suisse , switzerland 's third largest bank . shearson also has been an aggressive participant in the leveraged buy-out business . but its earnings became a major disappointment as its traditional retail , or individual investor , business showed no signs of rebounding from the slump that followed the october 1987 stock market crash . in addition , shearson 's listed $ 2 billion of capital is overstated , according to the rating concerns , because it includes $ 1.7 billion of goodwill . shearson `` really only has $ 300 million of capital , '' says mr. bowman of s&p . a shearson spokesman said 0 the firm is n't worried . `` a year ago , moody 's also had shearson under review for possible downgrade , '' he said . `` after two months of talks , our rating was maintained . '' drexel , meanwhile , already competes at a disadvantage to its big wall street rivals because it has a slightly lower commercial paper rating . the collapse of junk bond prices and the cancellation of many junk bond financings apparently have taken their toll on closely held drexel , the leading underwriter in that market . the firm also has been hit with big financial settlements with the government stemming from its guilty plea to six felonies related to a big insider-trading scandal . drexel this year eliminated its retail or individual customer business , cutting the firm 's workforce almost in half to just over 5,000 . recently , drexel circulated a private financial statement among several securities firms showing that its earnings performance has diminished this year from previous years . the firm 's capital , moreover , has n't grown at the same rate as in the past , officials at these firms say 0 . drexel remains confident of its future creditworthiness . `` we 're well positioned with $ 1.7 billion of capital , '' a drexel spokesman said 0 . `` and as a leading investment and merchant banking firm , the fact that we are no longer subject to the uncertainties and vicissitudes of the retail business is a major plus in our view . moreover , we 've probably been the most aggressive firm on the street in reducing costs , which are down around 40 % over the last six months .