signs of a slowing economy are increasing pressure on the federal reserve to cut short-term interest rates , but it is n't clear whether the central bank will do so . a survey by the fed 's 12 district banks shows 0 economic growth has been sluggish in recent weeks , while upward pressures on prices have moderated . `` the economy is clearly slowing , '' says robert black , president of the richmond federal reserve bank . `` if you look at the third quarter as posting roughly 2.5 % growth , i do see some slowing in the fourth quarter , '' agrees kansas city fed president roger guffey . nevertheless , both mr. guffey and mr. black say 0 the slowdown so far is no cause for concern . `` we 're coming closer to achieving the stated objective of slowing the economy to a point where hopefully some downward trend in prices will occur , '' said mr. guffey . bush administration officials are looking to the fed to bring down rates , and financial markets seem to be expecting easier credit as well . `` i think 0 the market had been expecting the fed to ease sooner and a little more than it has to date , '' said robert johnson , vice president of global markets for bankers trust co . the fed cut the key federal funds interest rate by about 0.25 percentage point to 8.75 % after the oct. 13 stock market plunge , but has shown no sign of movement since . the report from the fed found that manufacturing , in particular , has been weak in recent weeks . the philadelphia fed , for instance , reported that manufacturing activity `` continues to decline '' for the fourth month in a row . and in the chicago district , the report said 0 , `` a manufacturer of capital goods noted slower orders for some types , including defense equipment , petroleum equipment , food packaging machinery and material handling equipment . '' retail sales also were reported slow in most districts , particularly `` for discretionary , big-ticket items such as furniture , home appliances and consumer electronics . '' and construction also was described as slow in most areas . despite the economic slowdown , there are few clear signs that growth is coming to a halt . as a result , fed officials may be divided over whether to ease credit . several fed governors in washington have been pushing for easier credit ; but many of the regional fed presidents have been resisting such a move . mr. black said 0 he is `` pleased '' with the economy 's recent performance , and does n't see `` a lot of excesses out there that would tilt us into recession . '' `` there is always a chance of recession , '' added mr. guffey , `` but if you ask me to put a percentage on it , i would think 0 it 's well below a 50 % chance .