savings and loans reject blacks for mortgage loans twice as often as they reject whites , the office of thrift supervision said 0 . but that does n't necessarily mean 0 thrifts are discriminating against blacks , the agency said 0 . the office , an arm of the treasury , said 0 it does n't have data on the financial position of applicants and thus ca n't determine why blacks are rejected more often . nevertheless , on capitol hill , where the information was released yesterday at a senate banking subcommittee hearing , lawmakers said 0 they are worried that financial institutions are routinely discriminating against minorities . they asked regulators to suggest new ways 0 to force banks and thrifts to comply with anti-discrimination laws . sen. alan dixon -lrb- d , ill. -rrb- , chairman of the subcommittee on consumer and regulatory affairs , said , `` i 'm not a statistician . but when blacks are getting their loan applications rejected twice as often as whites -- and in some cities , it is three and four times as often -- i conclude that discrimination is part of the problem . '' james grohl , a spokesman for the u.s. league of savings institutions , said , `` the data is a red flag , but lacking the financial data you ca n't make a case that discrimination is widespread . '' the trade group official added : `` certainly the federal government should take a hard look at it . '' sen. dixon held the hearing to follow up on a provision in the savings and loan bailout bill that required regulators to report on evidence of discimination in mortgage lending . the legislation also requires broad new disclosures of the race , sex and income level of borrowers , but that information wo n't be gathered in new studies for several months at least . the federal reserve said 0 its studies in recent years , which adjust for income differences and other variables , showed that blacks received fewer home mortgages from banks and thrifts than whites . but john laware , a fed governor , told the subcommittee 0 the evidence is mixed and that the fed 's believes 0 the vast majority of banks are n't discriminating . for instance , he noted 0 , the fed studies have shown that blacks receive more home improvement loans than whites . several lawmakers were angered that the bank and thrift regulators generally said 0 they have been too busy handling the record number of bank and thrift failures in the past few years to put much energy into investigating possible discrimination . `` we would be the first 0 to admit that we have not devoted the necessary amount of emphasis over the past several years '' to developing examinations for discrimination , said jonathan fiechter , a top official of the office of thrift supervision . `` if we 've got folks out there who are being turned away in the mortgage market improperly and unfairly , '' said sen. donald riegle -lrb- d. , mich. -rrb- , chairman of the banking committee , `` then that is a matter that needs remedy now , not six months from now , or six years from now , or 26 years from now . '' officials of the federal deposit insurance corp. and the office of the comptroller of the currency said 0 they have punished only a few banks for violations of anti-discrimination laws . the fdic said 0 it has issued five citations to banks over the past three years for discriminatory practices . the comptroller 's office said 0 it found no indications of illegal discrimination in 3,437 examinations of banks since april 1987 . the comptroller 's office also said that of 37,000 complaints 0 it received since january 1987 , only 16 alleged racial discrimination in real estate lending . the agency investigated the complaints but no violations were cited . thrift regulators did n't give any figures on their enforcement actions . mr. fiechter said that among the possibilities being considered by regulators to fight discrimination is the use of `` testers '' -- government investigators who would pose as home buyers . the department of housing and urban development has used testers to investigate discrimination in rental housing . using testers could be controversial with financial institutions , but mr. grohl said 0 the u.s. league of savings institutions had n't yet taken any position on the matter .