common cause asked both the senate ethics committee and the justice department to investigate $ 1 million in political gifts by arizona businessman charles keating to five u.s. senators who interceded with thrift-industry regulators for him . mr. keating is currently the subject of a $ 1.1 billion federal anti-racketeering lawsuit accusing him of bleeding off assets of a california thrift 0 he controlled , lincoln savings & loan association , and driving it into insolvency . fred wertheimer -- president of common cause , the self-styled citizens lobby -- said 0 mr. keating already has conceded attempting to buy influence with the lawmakers -- democratic sens. dennis deconcini of arizona , alan cranston of california , john glenn of ohio and donald riegle of michigan ; and gop sen. john mccain of arizona . mr. wertheimer based this on a statement by mr. keating that was quoted in a wall street journal story in april : `` one question ... had to do with whether my financial support in any way influenced several political figures to take up my cause . i want to say in the most forceful way 0 i can : 0 i certainly hope so . '' in a highly unusual meeting in sen. deconcini 's office in april 1987 , the five senators asked federal regulators to ease up on lincoln . according to notes taken by one of the participants at the meeting , the regulators said 0 lincoln was gambling dangerously with depositors ' federally insured money and was `` a ticking time bomb . '' mr. keating had complained that the regulators were being too zealous . the notes show that sen. deconcini called the federal home loan bank board 's regulations `` grossly unfair , '' and that sen. glenn insisted that mr. keating 's thrift was `` viable and profitable . '' for the next two years , the bank board , which at the time was the agency responsible for regulating thrifts , failed to act -- even after federal auditors warned in may 1987 that mr. keating had caused lincoln to become insolvent . lincoln 's parent company , american continental corp. , entered bankruptcy-law proceedings this april 13 , and regulators seized the thrift the next day . the newly formed resolution trust corp. , successor to the bank board , filed suit against mr. keating and several others on sept. 15 . mr. keating has filed his own suit , alleging that his property was taken illegally . the cost to taxpayers of lincoln 's collapse has been estimated at as much as $ 2.5 billion . details of the affair have become public gradually over the past two years , mostly as a result of reporting by several newspapers . in the midst of his 1988 re-election campaign , sen. riegle , chairman of the senate banking committee , returned $ 76,000 in contributions after a detroit newspaper said that mr. keating had gathered the money for him about two weeks before the meeting with regulators . sen. deconcini , after months of fending off intense press criticism , returned $ 48,000 only last month , shortly after the government formally accused mr. keating of defrauding lincoln . in addition , sen. mccain last week disclosed that he belatedly had paid $ 13,433 to american continental as reimbursement for trips 0 he and his family took aboard the corporate jet to mr. keating 's vacation home at cat cay , the bahamas , from 1984 through 1986 . sen. mccain said 0 he had meant to pay for the trips at the time but that the matter `` fell between the cracks . '' mr. keating , his family members and associates also donated $ 112,000 to sen. mccain 's congressional campaigns over the years , according to press accounts . but sen. mccain says 0 mr. keating broke off their friendship abruptly in 1987 , because the senator refused to press the thrift executive 's case as vigorously as mr. keating wanted . `` he became very angry at that , left my office and told a number of people that i was a wimp , '' sen. mccain recalls . in july , california newspapers disclosed that mr. keating gave $ 850,000 in corporate funds to three tax-exempt voter registration organizations in 1987 and 1988 at the behest of sen. cranston , who conceded that soliciting the money was `` a pretty stupid thing 0 to do politically . '' in addition , sen. cranston received $ 47,000 in campaign donations through mr. keating , and the california democratic party received $ 85,000 in corporate donations for a 1986 get-out-the-vote drive that benefited the senator 's re-election campaign that year . also in july , ohio newspapers disclosed $ 200,000 in corporate donations by mr. keating to the national council on public policy , a political committee controlled by sen. glenn . that was in addition to $ 34,000 in direct campaign donations arranged by mr. keating to the ohio senator . mr. wertheimer said 0 the senate ethics committee should hire a special outside counsel to conduct an investigation , as was done in the case of former house speaker james wright . wilson abney , staff director of the ethics panel , would n't comment . sen. riegle said 0 he would cooperate with any inquiry , but that his conduct had been `` entirely proper . '' sen. mccain said 0 he had been `` deeply concerned '' at the time of the meeting that it might seem to be improper , but decided 0 it was `` entirely appropriate '' for him to seek fair treatment for a constituent . sen. glenn said 0 he had already made a complete disclosure of his role in the affair and `` i am completely satisfied to let this matter rest in the hands of the senate ethics committee . '' sen. deconcini said , `` when all is said and done , i expect to be fully exonerated . '' sen. cranston , who had already volunteered his help to the federal bureau of investigation in any investigation of mr. keating , portrayed his role in 1987 as prodding regulators to act . `` why did n't the bank board act sooner ? '' he said . `` that is what common cause should ask 0 be investigated .