electronic theft by foreign and industrial spies and disgruntled employees is costing u.s. companies billions and eroding their international competitive advantage . that was the message delivered by government and private security experts at an all-day conference on corporate electronic espionage . `` hostile and even friendly nations routinely steal information from u.s. companies and share it with their own companies , '' said noel d. matchett , a former staffer at the federal national security agency and now president of information security inc. , silver spring , md . it `` may well be '' that theft of business data is `` as serious a strategic threat to national security '' as it is a threat to the survival of victimized u.s. firms , said 0 michelle van cleave , the white house 's assistant director for national security affairs . the conference was jointly sponsored by the new york institute of technology school of management and the armed forces communications and electronics association , a joint industry-government trade group . any secret can be pirated , the experts said 0 , if it is transmitted over the air . even rank amateurs can do it if they spend a few thousand dollars for a commercially available microwave receiver with amplifier and a vcr recorder . they need only position themselves near a company 's satellite dish and wait . `` you can have a dozen competitors stealing your secrets at the same time , '' mr. matchett said , adding : `` it 's a pretty good bet 0 they wo n't get caught . '' the only way 0 to catch an electronic thief , he said 0 , is to set him up with erroneous information . even though electronic espionage may cost u.s. firms billions of dollars a year , most are n't yet taking precautions , the experts said 0 . by contrast , european firms will spend $ 150 million this year on electronic security , and are expected to spend $ 1 billion by 1992 . already many foreign firms , especially banks , have their own cryptographers , conference speakers reported 0 . still , encrypting corporate communications is only a partial remedy . one expert , whose job is so politically sensitive that he spoke on condition that he would n't be named or quoted , said 0 the expected influx of east european refugees over the next few years will greatly increase the chances of computer-maintenance workers , for example , doubling as foreign spies . moreover , he said , technology now exists for stealing corporate secrets after they 've been `` erased '' from a computer 's memory . he said that oliver north of iran-contra notoriety thought 0 he had erased his computer but that the information was later retrieved for congressional committees to read . no personal computer , not even the one on a chief executive 's desk , is safe , this speaker noted 0 . w. mark goode , president of micronyx inc. , a richardson , texas , firm that makes computer-security products , provided a new definition for mikhail gorbachev 's campaign for greater openness , known commonly as glasnost . under mr. gorbachev , mr. goode said 0 , the soviets are openly stealing western corporate communications . he cited the case of a swiss oil trader who recently put out bids via telex for an oil tanker 0 to pick up a cargo of crude in the middle east . among the responses 0 the swiss trader got was one from the soviet national shipping company , which had n't been invited to submit a bid . the soviets ' eavesdropping paid off , however , because they got the contract .