cie. de navigation mixte chairman marc fournier said 0 his board unanimously rejected as too low the $ 1.77 billion bid by cie. financiere de paribas to bring its stake in navigation mixte to 66.7 % . at a news conference , mr. fournier accused paribas of planning to pay for the takeover by selling parts of the company , whose interests include insurance , banking , tuna canning , sugar and orange juice . the chairman said 0 his board members , including representatives of west german insurance giant allianz ag and french banks credit lyonnais and societe generale , hold nearly 50 % of navigation mixte 's capital . mr. fournier said that as navigation mixte chairman , he is prohibited by takeover regulations from organizing his own defense or doing anything besides managing current company business . but sources said 0 he will be urging his allies to boost their stakes in navigation mixte , which is being traded in london and is to resume trading in paris tuesday . at the same time , he is expected to seek legal and regulatory means of blocking or delaying paribas 's bid . for the moment , the sources said 0 , he has decided against seeking a white knight or organizing a counterbid for paribas . mr. fournier said 0 navigation mixte 's 1989 unconsolidated , or parent-company , profit is likely to be 4.7 billion francs -lrb- $ 754.4 million -rrb- , up from 633.8 million francs last year . that is due mostly to payments from allianz for most of the 50 % stake 0 it has agreed to acquire in navigation mixte 's insurance business . mr. fournier said 0 the exceptional gain would mean nearly twice as high a dividend this year as last . if holders avoid tendering to paribas , he added 0 , they can expect strong dividends again next year . analysts noted that over the past 20 years , mr. fournier has built his company through astute stock-market activity and has warded off at least three takeover attempts . this time , however , some analysts think 0 he could face a real battle . `` without some unexpected `` coup de theatre '' , i do n't see what will block the paribas bid , '' said philippe de cholet , analyst at the brokerage cholet-dupont & cie . mr. de cholet said 0 mr. fournier 's biggest hope was to somehow persuade regulatory authorities to block the bid . paribas still needs the go-ahead from the commission des operations de bourse , a government regulatory agency , but analysts said 0 that is considered likely . mr. fournier also noted that navigation mixte joined paribas 's core of shareholders when paribas was denationalized in 1987 , and said 0 it now holds just under 5 % of paribas 's shares . once he realized that paribas 's intentions were n't friendly , he said 0 , but before the bid was launched , he sought approval to boost his paribas stake above 10 % . the petition is still pending , but mr. fournier downplayed the likelihood of his organizing a takeover bid of his own for the much-larger paribas . one big question now is the likely role of mr. fournier 's allies . mr. fournier said 0 the large institutions that hold nearly 50 % of navigation mixte 's capital all strongly support him , but some analysts said 0 they are n't so sure . allianz , for example , has said in official comments so far that it will remain neutral . paribas is allianz 's lead french bank . paribas said monday that it intends to bid to boost its stake in navigation mixte to 66.7 % , from the 18.7 % 0 it already owns . the purchase of the additional 48 % stake is expected to cost more than 11 billion francs -lrb- $ 1.77 billion -rrb- . paribas says 0 it will offer 1,850 francs -lrb- $ 296.95 -rrb- each for navigation mixte shares that enjoy full dividend rights , and 1,800 francs each for a block of shares issued july 1 , which will receive only partial dividends this year . alternatively , it is to offer three paribas shares for one navigation mixte share . the paribas offer values navigation mixte at about 23 billion francs , depending on how many of navigation mixte 's warrants are converted into shares during the takeover battle .