unocal corp. 's decision to put its norwegian oil and gas interests up for sale earlier this week is another step in the company 's strategic review of its properties , and shows that few of them are sacred cows . the company declined to estimate the value of the norwegian holding . but eugene l. nowak , an analyst at dean witter reynolds inc. , forecast that the sale will bring in `` $ 200 million or substantially more . '' the proposed transaction is the latest in a redeployment of assets by the los angeles-based oil company that has included the $ 200 million sale of its headquarters property and the pending sale of half of its chicago refinery and related marketing operations to petroleos de venezuela s.a . mr. nowak said 0 he attaches particular importance to the proposed sale because it suggests that the company is willing to sell oil and gas assets that are n't part of its major strategic strengths . unocal said 0 it expects to complete the sale of its unocal norge a\/s unit by next march or april . in addition to an 18 % stake in the veslefrikk offshore field , the norwegian unit has interests ranging from 10 % to 25 % in three other norwegian oil and gas production licenses . in 1986 , unocal sold a 7.5 % stake in the veslefrikk field to deutsche erdolversorgungs g.m.b . h. , a west german oil company , for an undisclosed amount . in 1987 , it sold a 2.5 % stake in the veslefrikk field to the swedish national oil company , resulting in a $ 7 million after-tax gain . however , those sales were early in the field 's history , before production equipment was installed . the field is currently being developed and is slated to start production by the end of the year . it 's expected to produce about 62,000 barrels per day . a company spokesman said 0 the veslefrikk field 's gross reserves were estimated in 1987 at 229 million barrels . however , he added that that estimate , made before extensive development drilling , currently is being reappraised . the spokesman said 0 unocal has had `` considerable interest '' from prospective buyers . the company has retained j. henry schroder wagg & co. as financial adviser and agent for the sale .