earnings for most of the nation 's major pharmaceutical makers are believed to have moved ahead briskly in the third quarter , as companies with newer , big-selling prescription drugs fared especially well . for the third consecutive quarter , however , most of the companies ' revenues were battered by adverse foreign-currency translations as a result of the strong dollar abroad . analysts said that merck & co. , eli lilly & co. , warner-lambert co. and the squibb corp. unit of bristol-myers squibb co. all benefited from strong sales of relatively new , higher-priced medicines that provide wide profit margins . less robust earnings at pfizer inc. and upjohn co. were attributed to those companies ' older products , many of which face stiffening competition from generic drugs and other medicines . joseph riccardo , an analyst with bear , stearns & co. , said that over the past few years most drug makers have shed their slow-growing businesses and instituted other cost savings , such as consolidating manufacturing plants and administrative staffs . as a result , `` major new products are having significant impact , even on a company with very large revenues , '' mr. riccardo said 0 . analysts said 0 profit for the dozen or so big drug makers , as a group , is estimated to have climbed between 11 % and 14 % . while that 's not spectacular , neil sweig , an analyst with prudential bache , said that the rate of growth will `` look especially good as compared to other companies if the economy turns downward . '' mr. sweig estimated that merck 's profit for the quarter rose by about 22 % , propelled by sales of its line-up of fast-growing prescription drugs , including its anti-cholesterol drug , mevacor ; a high blood pressure medicine , vasotec ; primaxin , an antibiotic , and pepcid , an anti-ulcer medication . profit climbed even though merck 's sales were reduced by `` one to three percentage points '' as a result of the strong dollar , mr. sweig said 0 . in the third quarter of 1988 , merck earned $ 311.8 million , or 79 cents a share . in rahway , n.j. , a merck spokesman said 0 the company does n't make earnings projections . mr. sweig said 0 he estimated that lilly 's earnings for the quarter jumped about 20 % , largely because of the performance of its new anti-depressant prozac . the drug , introduced last year , is expected to generate sales of about $ 300 million this year . `` it 's turning out to be a real blockbuster , '' mr. sweig said . in last year 's third quarter , lilly earned $ 171.4 million , or $ 1.20 a share . in indianapolis , lilly declined comment . several analysts said 0 they expected warner-lambert 's profit also to increase by more than 20 % from $ 87.7 million , or $ 1.25 a share , 0 it reported in the like period last year . the company is praised by analysts for sharply lowering its costs in recent years and shedding numerous companies with low profit margins . the company 's lean operation , analysts said 0 , allowed sharp-rising sales from its cholesterol drug , lopid , to power earnings growth . lopid sales are expected to be about $ 300 million this year , up from $ 190 million in 1988 . in morris plains , n.j. , a spokesman for the company said 0 the analysts ' projections are `` in the ballpark . '' squibb 's profit , estimated by analysts to be about 18 % above the $ 123 million , or $ 1.25 a share , 0 it earned in the third quarter of 1988 , was the result of especially strong sales of its capoten drug for treating high blood pressure and other heart disease . the company was officially merged with bristol-myers co. earlier this month . bristol-myers declined to comment . mr. riccardo of bear stearns said that schering-plough corp. 's expected profit rise of about 18 % to 20 % , and bristol-meyers 's expected profit increase of about 13 % are largely because `` those companies are really managed well . '' scheringplough earned $ 94.4 million , or 84 cents a share , while bristol-myers earned $ 232.3 million , or 81 cents a share , in the like period a year earlier . in madison , n.j. , a spokesman for schering-plough said 0 the company has `` no problems '' with the average estimate by a analysts that third-quarter earnings per share rose by about 19 % , to $ 1 . the company expects to achieve the 20 % increase in full-year earnings per share , as it projected in the spring , the spokesman said 0 . meanwhile , analysts said 0 pfizer 's recent string of lackluster quarterly performances continued , as earnings in the quarter were expected to decline by about 5 % . sales of pfizer 's important drugs , feldene for treating arthritis , and procardia , a heart medicine , have shrunk because of increased competition . `` the -lrb- strong -rrb- dollar hurt pfizer a lot , too , '' mr. sweig said . in the third quarter last year , pfizer earned $ 216.8 million , or $ 1.29 a share . in new york , the company declined comment . analysts said 0 they expected upjohn 's profit to be flat or rise by only about 2 % to 4 % as compared with $ 89.6 million , or 49 cents a share , 0 it earned a year ago . upjohn 's biggest-selling drugs are xanax , a tranquilizer , and halcion , a sedative . sales of both drugs have been hurt by new state laws restricting the prescriptions of certain tranquilizing medicines and adverse publicity about the excessive use of the drugs . also , the company 's hair-growing drug , rogaine , is selling well -- at about $ 125 million for the year , but the company 's profit from the drug has been reduced by upjohn 's expensive print and television campaigns for advertising , analysts said 0 . in kalamazoo , mich. , upjohn declined comment .