the art of change-ringing is peculiar to the english , and , like most english peculiarities , unintelligible to the rest of the world . -- dorothy l. sayers , `` the nine tailors '' aslacton , england -- of all scenes that evoke rural england , this is one of the loveliest : an ancient stone church stands amid the fields , the sound of bells cascading from its tower , calling the faithful to evensong . the parishioners of st. michael and all angels stop to chat at the church door , as members here always have . in the tower , five men and women pull rhythmically on ropes attached to the same five bells that first sounded here in 1614 . but there is also a discordant , modern note in aslacton , though it ca n't be heard by the church-goers enjoying the peal of bells this cool autumn evening . like most of the other 6,000 churches in britain with sets of bells , st. michael once had its own `` band '' of ringers , who would herald every sunday morning and evening service . now , only one local ringer remains : 64-year-old derek hammond . the others here today live elsewhere . they belong to a group of 15 ringers -- including two octogenarians and four youngsters in training -- who drive every sunday from church to church in a sometimes-exhausting effort to keep the bells sounding in the many belfries of east anglia . `` to ring for even one service at this tower , we have to scrape , '' says mr. hammond , a retired water-authority worker . `` we 've tried to train the youngsters , but they have their discos and their dances , and they just drift away . '' mr. hammond worries that old age and the flightiness of youth will diminish the ranks of the east anglian group that keeps the aslacton bells pealing . history , after all , is not on his side . according to a nationwide survey taken a year ago , nearly a third of england 's church bells are no longer rung on sundays because there is no one 0 to ring them . it is easy to see why the ancient art is on the ropes . the less complicated version of playing tunes on bells , as do the carillons of continental europe , is considered by the english to be childish , fit only for foreigners . change-ringing , a mind-boggling exercise 0 the english invented 380 years ago , requires physical dexterity -- some bells weigh more than a ton -- combined with intense mental concentration . proper english bells are started off in `` rounds , '' from the highest-pitched bell to the lowest -- a simple descending scale using , in larger churches , as many as 12 bells . then , at a signal , the ringers begin varying the order in which the bells sound without altering the steady rhythm of the striking . each variation , or change , can occur only once , the rules state 0 . ringers memorize patterns of changes , known as `` methods , '' which have odd-sounding names like kent treble bob major or grandsire caters . a series of 5,000 or so changes is a `` peal '' and takes about three hours . a look at a thursday night practice at st. mary abbot church in the kensington district of london gives an idea of the work involved . ten shirt-sleeved ringers stand in a circle , one foot ahead of the other in a prize-fighter 's stance , each pulling a rope that disappears through a small hole in the high ceiling of the ringing chamber . no one speaks , and the snaking of the ropes seems to make as much sound as the bells themselves , muffled by the ceiling . totally absorbed , the ringers stare straight ahead , using peripheral vision -lrb- they call it `` rope-sight '' -rrb- to watch the other ropes and thus time their pulls . far above in the belfry , the huge bronze bells , mounted on wheels , swing madly through a full 360 degrees , starting and ending , surprisingly , in the inverted , or mouth-up position . skilled ringers use their wrists to advance or retard the next swing , so that one bell can swap places with another in the following change . in a well-known detective-story involving church bells , english novelist dorothy l. sayers described ringing as a `` passion -lcb- that -rcb- finds its satisfaction in mathematical completeness and mechanical perfection . '' ringers , she added 0 , are `` filled with the solemn intoxication that comes of intricate ritual faultlessly performed . '' `` ringing does become a bit of an obsession , '' admits stephanie pattenden , master of the band at st. mary abbot and one of england 's best female ringers . it is a passion that usually stays in the tower , however . more often than not , ringers think of the church as something stuck on the bottom of the belfry . when their changes are completed , and after they have worked up a sweat , ringers often skip off to the local pub , leaving worship for others below . this does not sit well with some clerics . with membership of the church of england steadily dwindling , strong-willed vicars are pressing equally strong-willed and often non-religious ringers to attend services . two years ago , the rev. jeremy hummerstone , vicar of great torrington , devon , got so fed up with ringers who did n't attend service 0 he sacked the entire band ; the ringers promptly set up a picket line in protest . `` they were a self-perpetuating club that treated the tower as sort of a separate premises , '' the vicar hummerstone says . an entirely new band rings today at great torrington , several of whom are members of the congregation . but there still are n't enough ringers 0 to ring more than six of the eight bells . at st. mary 's church in ilminster , somerset , the bells have fallen silent following a dust-up over church attendance . the vicar , w.d. jones , refuses to talk about it , saying 0 it would `` reopen the wound . '' but c.j.b. marshall , vicar of a nearby church , feels 0 the fault is in the stairs from the bell tower that are located next to the altar . `` so crunch , crunch , crunch , bang , bang , bang -- here come the ringers from above , making a very obvious exit while the congregation is at prayer , '' he says . vicar marshall admits to mixed feelings about this issue , since he is both a vicar and an active bell-ringer himself . `` the sound of bells is a net 0 to draw people into the church , '' he says . `` i live in hopes that the ringers themselves will be drawn into that fuller life . '' the central council of church bell ringers , a sort of parliament of ringing groups , aims to improve relations with vicars , says 0 john c. baldwin , president . it hopes to speak to students at theological colleges about the joys of bell ringing and will shortly publish a booklet for every vicar in the country entitled , `` the bells in your care . '' says mr. baldwin , `` we recognize that we may no longer have as high a priority in church life and experience . '' mr. baldwin is also attacking the greater problem : lack of ringers . one survey says that of the 100,000 trained bellringers in england today , only 40,000 of them still ring . also , ringers do n't always live where the bells need to be rung -- like in small , rural parishes and inner-city churches . but the council 's program to attract and train ringers is only partly successful , says 0 mr. baldwin . `` right now , we 're lucky if after five years we keep one new ringer out of 10 , '' he adds . one bright sign is that a growing number of women have entered the once male-dominated field ; more than a third of the ringers today are women . they are n't accepted everywhere , however . the oldest bell-ringing group in the country , the ancient society of college youths , founded in 1637 , remains male-only , a fact that 's particularly galling to women because the group is the sole source of ringers for britain 's most prestigious churches , st. paul 's cathedral and westminster abbey . this being britain , no woman has filed an equal-opportunity suit , but the extent of the problem surfaced this summer in a series of letters to `` the ringing world , '' a weekly newspaper for ringers . one writer , signing his letter as `` red-blooded , balanced male , '' remarked on the `` frequency of women fainting in peals , '' and suggested that they `` settle back into their traditional role of making tea at meetings . '' in the torrent of replies that followed , one woman ringer from solihull observed that `` the average male ringer leaves quite a lot 0 to be desired : badly dressed , decorated with acne and a large beer-belly , frequently unwashed and unbearably flatulent in peals . '' another women wrote from sheffield to say that in her 60 years of ringing , `` i have never known a lady to faint in the belfry . i have seen one or two men die , bless them .