diversification pays . that 's a fundamental lesson for investors , but its truth was demonstrated once again in the performance of mutual funds during and after the stock market 's friday-the-13th plunge . stock funds , like the market as a whole , generally dropped more than 2 % in the week through last thursday , according to figures compiled by lipper analytical services inc . that reflects the huge drop a week ago friday , last monday 's rebound and the dips and blips that followed . but several other types of funds shielded investors from the worst of the market 's slide . funds that invest internationally were the top-performing stock and fixed-income funds . `` more than ever , people should realize 0 they should have a diversified portfolio , '' said jeremy duffield , a senior vice president of vanguard group . `` that means stocks , bonds , money market instruments and real estate . '' one week 's performance should n't be the basis for any investment decision . but the latest mutual fund performance figures do show what can happen when the going gets rough . `` you want to know how a fund did when the market got hammered , '' said kurt brouwer , an investment adviser with brouwer & janachowski in san francisco . `` it 's like kicking the tires of a car ... . what you want to know is when the road 's rough , when there 's snow and ice , how 's this car going to perform ? '' general equity funds fell an average of 2.35 % in the week ended thursday , compared with a 2.32 % slide for the standard & poor 's 500-stock index . but lipper analytical 's figures show that there were a number of ways 0 investors could have cushioned themselves from the stock market 's gyrations . gold-oriented funds , for instance , which invest in companies that mine and process the precious metal , posted an average decline of 1.15 % . flexible portfolio funds , which allocate investments among stocks , bonds and money-market instruments and other investments , declined at about half the rate of stock funds -- an average drop of 1.27 % , according to lipper . global allocation funds take the asset-allocation concept one step further by investing at least 25 % of their portfolios outside the u.s. . this gives them the added benefits of international diversification -- including a foreign-exchange boost during periods , like the past week , when the dollar declines against other major currencies . with all that going for them , global flexible portfolio funds declined only 1.07 % in the week through last thursday . but while the merits of diversification shine through when times are tough , there 's also a price 0 to pay : a diversified portfolio always underperforms an undiversified portfolio during those times when the investment in the undiversified portfolio is truly hot . and friday the 13th notwithstanding , stocks have been this year 's hot investment . thus , even including the latest week , the average general stock fund has soared more than 24 % so far this year , the lipper analytical figures show 0 . by comparison , global asset allocation funds have turned in an average total return of about 19 % , while domestic flexible portfolios are up about 17 % . fixed-income funds have returned 8.2 % , while gold funds , which tend to be volatile , have risen just 4.55 % , on average . `` that 's the problem with trying to hedge too much , '' said mr. brouwer . `` you do n't make any real money . '' over the last 20 years , for example , mr. brouwer says , an investor putting $ 5,000 a year in the s&p 500 would have made nearly twice as much than if it were invested in treasury bills . some equity funds did better than others in the week that began on friday the 13th . the $ 4 million monetta fund , for instance , was the seventh top performing fund for the week , with a 2.65 % return . its return so far this year has been a credible 21.71 % . the fund 's strategy is to sell when a stock appreciates 30 % over its cost . by the time 0 the market plummeted 10 days ago , monetta was 55 % in cash , said 0 robert bacarella , president and portfolio manager . last monday , he started `` buying the high-quality growth companies that people were throwing away at discount prices . '' among mr. bacarella 's picks : oracle systems , reebok international ltd. and digital microwave corp . the fund 's cash position is now about 22 % , which mr. bacarella calls `` still bearish . '' among the big stock funds , dreyfus fund , with more than $ 2 billion in assets , had a decline of just 1.49 % for the week and a return of 21.42 % for the year . howard stein , chairman of dreyfus corp. , said 0 the fund was about half invested in government bonds on oct. 13 , and about 10 % in cash . `` in a downward market , bonds act better , '' he said . `` we still think 0 there 's a lot of unsettlement in this market . we believe 0 interest rates will continue to trend lower , and the economy will slow around the world . '' many of the funds that did best in the last week are heavily invested overseas , giving them the benefit of foreign currency translations when the dollar is weak . from its high point on thursday , oct. 12 , to where it traded late in new york a week later , the dollar fell 3.6 % against the west german mark , 3.4 % against the british pound and 2.1 % against the japanese yen . three international cash portfolios funds , which invest almost exclusively in bonds and money-market instruments overseas , were among the four top-performing funds in the latest week . because the funds ' investments are denominated in foreign currencies , their value expressed in dollars goes up when those currencies rise against the dollar . but when the dollar rises against major foreign currencies , as it did for much of this year , the dollar value of these funds declines . all three funds posted negative returns for the year to date . of the funds that fared the worst in the post-oct . 13 week , two are heavily invested in airlines stocks , which led the market slide following problems with financing for the ual corp . buy-out plan . reflecting airline takeover activity , however , both the fidelity select air transportation portfolio and the national aviation & technology fund posted better-than-average returns for the the year to date : 30.09 % for the fidelity air transportation fund and a whopping 47.24 % for national aviation & technology . the small drop in equity funds in general in the latest week may not necessarily be a good sign , said 0 a. michael lipper , president of lipper analytical . noting that equity funds are up nearly 60 % from their post-crash low on dec. 3 , 1987 , he said that what happened last week `` may not be enough of an adjustment . there 's either more 0 to come or an extremely long period of dullness . '' but investors do n't seem to think so . several big mutual fund groups said last week that cash flows into stock funds were heavier than usual after heavy outflows on the 13th . vanguard group said 0 it had a more than $ 50 million net inflow into its stock funds last week . `` there certainly has n't been a panic reaction , '' said steven norwitz , a vice president at t. rowe price associates . `` people showed some staying power and , in fact , interest in buying equities . '' source : lipper analytical services inc . \* not counting dividends \*\* with dividends reinvested sources : lipper analytical services inc. ; standard & poor 's corp .