three leading drug companies reported robust third-quarter earnings , bolstered by strong sales of newer , big-selling prescriptions drugs that provide hefty profit margins . merck & co. reported a 25 % increase in earnings ; warner-lambert co. 's profit rose 22 % and eli lilly & co. 's net income rose 24 % . the results were in line with analysts ' expectations . merck & co . merck , rahway , n.j. , continued to lead the industry with a strong sales performance in the human and animal health-products segment . a stronger u.s. dollar reduced third-quarter and first-nine-month sales growth 2 % and 3 % , respectively . international sales accounted for 47 % of total company sales for the nine months , compared with 50 % a year earlier . sales for the quarter rose to $ 1.63 billion from $ 1.47 billion . mevacor , merck 's new cholesterol-lowering drug , had higher sales than any other prescription medicine has ever achieved in the u.s. in the year following introduction , the company said 0 . the drug was introduced in west germany this year . intense competition , however , led to unit sales declines for a group of merck 's established human and animal-health products , including aldomet and indocin . in new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday , merck shares closed at $ 75.25 , up 50 cents . warner-lambert co . warner-lambert , morris plains , n.j. , reported sales that were a record for any quarter and the eighth quarter in a row of 20 % or more per-share earnings growth . spurred by growth in world-wide sales of the company 's prescription drugs , warner-lambert said 0 1989 will be the best year in its history , with per-share earnings expected to increase more than 20 % to about $ 6.10 . sales for the quarter rose to $ 1.11 billion from $ 1.03 billion . prescription-drug world-wide sales rose 9 % in the quarter to $ 340 million ; u.s. sales rose 15 % . the segment 's growth was led by sales of the cardiovascular drugs lopid , a lipid regulator , and dilzem , a calcium channel blocker . world-wide sales of warner-lambert 's non-prescription health-care products , such as halls cough tablets , rolaids antacid , and lubriderm skin lotion , increased 3 % to $ 362 million in the third quarter ; u.s. sales rose 5 % . confectionery products sales also had strong growth in the quarter . world-wide sales of trident gum , certs breath mints , and clorets gum and breath mints , increased 12 % to $ 277 million . warner-lambert shares closed at $ 109.50 a share , up $ 1.50 , in big board composite trading yesterday . eli lilly & co . lilly attributed record third-quarter and nine-month results to world-wide gains for pharmaceuticals , medical instruments and plant-science products despite poor exchange rates for the dollar that slowed sales abroad . earnings continued to pace sales because of a lower tax rate , profit from the renegotiation of the debt instrument received from faberge inc. in connection with lilly 's sale of elizabeth arden inc. in 1987 , and net proceeds from the settlement of patent litigation at lilly 's hybritech inc. unit . third-quarter sales of the indianapolis , ind. , company rose 11 % to $ 1.045 billion from $ 940.6 million . nine-month sales grew 12 % to $ 3.39 billion from $ 3.03 billion a year earlier . sales of prozac , an anti-depressant , led drug-sales increases . higher sales of pesticides and other plant-science products more than offset a slight decline in the sales of animal-health products to fuel the increase in world-wide agricultural product sales , lilly said 0 . advanced cardiovascular systems inc. and cardiac pacemakers inc. units led growth in the medical-instrument systems division . lilly shares closed yesterday in composite trading on the big board at $ 62.25 , down 12.5 cents .