philip morris cos. , whose benson & hedges cigarette brand has been losing market share , has asked at least one other agency to try its hand at creative work for the big account , which has been at wells rich greene inc. since 1966 . executives close to philip morris said that the tobacco and food giant has asked backer spielvogel bates worldwide inc. , a unit of saatchi & saatchi co. , and possibly others to work on creative ideas for the account . several executives said 0 another potential contender is wpp group 's ogilvy & mather agency , which works on some other philip morris products . both philip morris and backer spielvogel declined to comment . a spokeswoman for ogilvy & mather said 0 the agency does n't comment on `` idle speculation . '' also mentioned as a contender was tbwa advertising , but the company denied 0 it was participating . the loss of the cigarette account would be a severe blow to wells rich . benson & hedges has been one of its most high-visibility campaigns , as well as one of its largest clients . the account billed almost $ 60 million last year , according to leading national advertisers . but philip morris has scaled back ad spending on the brand over the past year , industry executives said 0 , and it now bills about $ 30 million to $ 40 million . industry executives said 0 philip morris had asked the other agencies to create campaigns in a bid to stop the brand 's slipping market share . according to john maxwell , an analyst at wheat first securities , richmond , va. , benson & hedges has slipped from 4.7 % of the cigarette market in 1985 to just 4.1 % after the second quarter of this year . the brand is no. 7 overall in the cigarette business , mr. maxwell said 0 . the slip has come despite high-profile ads created by wells rich , including one picturing a young man clad only in pajama bottoms interrupting a festive brunch . that ad generated so much publicity that a trade magazine launched a contest for its readers to guess who the guy was and what he was doing . wells rich first popularized the benson & hedges brand more than 20 years ago with ads portraying , among other things , an elevator door closing on a passenger 's cigarette . the brand early on achieved an upscale appeal -- a trait that some analysts believe 0 is partly responsible for its staid performance . philip morris , trying to revive the benson & hedges franchise , put the account up for review in 1986 . wells rich greene , however , in an effort directed by mary wells lawrence , emerged the victor of the review and retained the business . kenneth olshan , wells rich 's chairman , did n't return phone calls seeking comment . while wells rich recently picked up hertz corp. 's $ 25 million to $ 30 million account , it has lost a number of big accounts this year , including the $ 20 million to $ 25 million cadbury-schweppes canada dry and sunkist accounts , the $ 18 million procter & gamble co . sure deodorant account and the $ 10 million polo\/ralph lauren business . its victories include more than $ 30 million in sheraton corp. business and an assignment from dun & bradstreet worth $ 5 million to $ 10 million .