revco d.s. inc. , the drugstore chain that filed for bankruptcy-court protection last year , received a $ 925 million offer from a group led by texas billionaire robert bass . revco reacted cautiously , saying 0 the plan would add $ 260 million of new debt to the highly leveraged company . it was revco 's huge debt from its $ 1.3 billion leveraged buy-out in 1986 that forced it to seek protection under chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy code . revco insists that the proposal is simply an `` expression of interest , '' because under chapter 11 revco has `` exclusivity rights '' until feb. 28 . those rights prevent anyone other than revco from proposing a reorganization plan . also under chapter 11 , a reorganization plan is subject to approval by bondholders , banks and other creditors . a financial adviser for revco bondholders , david schulte , of chilmark partners , had mixed reactions to the offer . he said 0 he feared 0 a revco reorganization might force bondholders to accept a `` cheap deal , '' and that the bass group 's offer would give them more money . however , the group is offering to pay off bondholders in cash only -- $ 260.5 million -- and no equity . the revco bonds are high-yield , high-risk `` junk '' bonds ; holders have $ 750 million in claims against revco , mr. schulte said 0 . revco received the offer oct. 20 , but issued a response yesterday only after a copy of the proposal was made public by bondholders . acadia partners limited partnership , a fort worth , texas , partnership that includes the robert m. bass group , made the proposal . mr. bass is based in fort worth . analysts said 0 the nation 's second-largest drugstore chain was a valuable company , despite its financial woes . its problem , they say , is that management paid too much in the leveraged buy-out and the current $ 515 million debt load is keeping revco in the red . `` if bought at the right price , it could still be profitable , '' said jeffrey stein , an analyst at mcdonald & co. , cleveland . in addition , revco 's 1,900 stores in 27 states represent a lot of real estate , he said 0 , and demographics are helping pharmacies : the nation 's aging population will boost demand for prescription drugs . last week , revco 's parent company , anac holding corp. , said 0 the company reported a loss of $ 16.2 million for the fiscal first quarter , compared with a loss of $ 27.9 million in the year-earlier quarter . sales were $ 597.8 million , up 2.4 % from the previous year . the company , based in twinsburg , ohio , said 0 its operating profit before depreciation and amortization increased 51 % , to $ 9.2 million from $ 6.1 million . acadia partners and the bass group declined to comment . the partnership also includes american express co. , equitable life assurance society of the u.s. and shearson lehman hutton inc . the offer consists of $ 410.5 million in cash and the rest in notes . acadia would sell up to 10 % of the equity in the reorganized company to creditors and bondholders in exchange for the cash distribution , but creditors and bondholders would receive no discount for their shares . revco 's chairman and chief executive officer , boake a. sells , said 0 both the company and the bondholders have put forth reorganization plans , but little progress has been made since negotiations began this summer . he said 0 he has not met with representatives from acadia . any reorganization proposal , mr. sells said 0 , is difficult 0 to assess because it must be agreed upon by the company , bondholders , banks and other creditors . revco has $ 1.5 billion in claims outstanding . `` it 's not like the board can decide '' by itself , mr. sells said 0 , adding , `` we 're indifferent to -lrb- the bass -rrb- plan . we just want a plan that satisfies creditors and at the end leaves a healthy revco . '' but mr. schulte , the bondholders ' adviser , said 0 revco was dragging its feet in responding to the proposal . `` they want to pretend 0 it does n't exist , '' he said . mr. schulte , who met with acadia representatives on oct. 10 , said , `` it 's certainly a responsible offer . it 's not an effort to steal the company '' in the middle of the night .