the list of laboratories claiming to be producing inexplicable amounts of heat from `` cold fusion '' experiments is slowly growing . but the experiments continue to be plagued by lack of firm evidence that the extra heat is coming from the fusing of hydrogen atoms . new experiments at some of the big national laboratories are still unable to find hints of nuclear fusion reactions , leaving only the finding of tritium in a texas experiment to support university of utah chemists ' claim of achieving hydrogen fusion at room temperatures . the latest developments in cold fusion research were presented in 24 reports delivered at the fall meeting here of the electrochemical society , the first scientific meeting in five months 0 to hear formal reports on cold fusion experiments . the meeting offered stark evidence of a dramatic fall in scientific interest in cold fusion research . of the 1,300 chemists registered for the society 's weeklong meeting , fewer than 200 sat through the day and a half of cold fusion presentations at week 's end . this was in contrast with the society 's meeting last may , at the height of the controversy , when more than 1,500 scientists , along with scores of reporters and tv crews , crowded into a los angeles hotel ballroom for a tumultuous special night session on the subject . neither of the two chemists whose utah experiments triggered the cold fusion uproar , martin fleischmann and b. stanley pons , were at the meeting . but some members of an ad hoc expert committee set up by the department of energy to evaluate the cold fusion research were in the audience . the committee is to recommend at the end of the month whether doe should support cold fusion research . most of the two dozen scientists taking the podium reported results with new , more sophisticated variations of the seemingly simple electrolysis-of-water experiments described last march by messrs. fleischmann and pons . the experiments involve encircling a thin rod of palladium metal with a wire of platinum and plunging the two electrodes into `` heavy '' water in which the hydrogen atoms are a doubly heavy form known as deuterium . when an electric current is applied to the palladium and platinum electrodes , the heavy water did begin to break up , or dissociate . ordinarily the electrolysis , or breakup , of the water would consume almost all of the electrical energy . but messrs. fleischmann and pons said 0 their experiments also produced large amounts of heat . the heat energy plus the energy consumed by the breakup of the water molecules added to far more energy coming out of the apparatus than electrical energy going in , they reported 0 . because they also detected tritium and indications of nuclear radiation , they asserted that the `` excess '' heat energy must be coming from energy released by the nuclear fusion of deuterium atoms inside the palladium rod . as of last weekend , a dozen labs also have reported measuring `` excess '' heat from similar electrolytic experiments , although amounts of such heat vary widely . one of the seven reports presented here of excess heat production was given by richard a. oriani , professor of chemical engineering at the university of minnesota . mr. oriani said 0 his skepticism of the utah claims was initially confirmed when his first experiments last spring failed to produce results . but he then borrowed a palladium rod from chemists at texas a&m who said 0 they were getting excess heat . `` the results were fascinating , '' he said . on the fourth `` run '' with the borrowed rod , the experiment began producing excess heat . the experiment was stopped briefly to change an instrument . when it was restarted , heat output `` really took off '' and produced excess heat for several hours before dying down , he said 0 . typical of other experiments , mr. oriani said 0 his experiment was `` very erratic . '' it would go along doing nothing but dissociating the heavy water and then at totally unpredictable times , it would begin producing excess heat for as long as 10 or 11 hours before quieting down . the excess heat was 15 % to 20 % more than the energy involved in the electrolysis of water . mr. oriani said 0 the heat bursts were too large and too long 0 to be explained by the sudden release of energy that might have slowly accumulated during the experiments ' quiescent times , as some scientists have suggested . `` there is a reality to the excess energy , '' he said . other scientists said 0 they also were getting sporadic bursts of excess heat lasting several hours at a time . the bursts often occur , they said 0 , after they `` perturbed '' the experiments by raising or lowering the amount of electric current being applied , or switching the current off and on . one chemist privately suggested 0 this hinted that some `` anomalous '' chemical reactions might be producing the heat . one reason 0 questions surround the heat experiments is that they involve unusually meticulous measurements . typically , the input energy ranges from a third of a watt to one watt and the excess energy is measured in tenths of a watt . one exception is a continuing experiment at stanford university where as much as 10 watts of energy are being put into the electrolytic cells . a cell filled with heavy water is producing 1.0 to 1.5 watts more heat than an identical electrolytic cell filled with ordinary water next to it , reported 0 turgut m. gur , an associate of materials scientist robert a. huggins , head of the stanford experimental team . one of the few hints 0 the excess heat might be produced by fusion came from brief remarks by chemist john bockris of texas a&m university . mr. bockris previously reported getting bursts of excess heat and of detecting increasing amounts of tritium forming in the heavy water . he said that within the past few days , he 's gotten evidence that there is a `` weak correlation '' between the time 0 the heat bursts occur and the production of tritium . there is n't any way 0 to continuously measure the amount of tritium in the heavy water , so it 's been difficult to tell whether the tritium formation is related to the heat bursts or some other phenomenon . increasingly careful attempts to measure neutrons , which would be strong evidence of fusion reactions , continue to be negative . messrs. fleischmann and pons initially reported indirect evidence of neutrons being produced in their experiment but later conceded 0 the measurements were questionable . researchers at sandia national laboratories in albuquerque , n.m. , reported 0 they went so far as to take a `` cold fusion '' experiment and three neutron detectors into a tunnel under 300 feet of granite to shield the detectors from cosmic rays . a number of times they detected neutrons in one , sometimes two , of the three detectors , but only once during 411 hours of the experiment did they detect a neutron burst in all three detectors -- and they think 0 that was a spurious event . shimson gottesfeld of los alamos national laboratory said 0 researchers there detected a burst of neutrons from an early cold fusion experiment last april but decided not to announce it until they could confirm it . in subsequent experiments , one of two neutron detectors occasionally indicated a burst of neutrons but neutron bursts were never recorded in both detectors at the same time . they concluded 0 the indications of neutrons stemmed from faults in the detectors rather than from the cold fusion experiment . at the lawrence berkeley laboratory in california , new experiments indicated that the lithium added to the heavy water so it will conduct a current can produce previously unsuspected electrical effects on the surface of the palladium rod -- which messrs. fleischmann and pons might have misinterpreted , reported 0 philip ross from the california laboratory .