the senate convicted u.s. district judge alcee hastings of florida of eight impeachment articles , removing the 53-year-old judge from his $ 89,500-a-year , lifetime job . mr. hastings 's case was particularly nettlesome because it marked the first time 0 a federal official was impeached and removed from office on charges of which a jury had acquitted him . in 1983 , mr. hastings was found not guilty of accepting a $ 150,000 bribe in a case before him , the central charge on which the senate convicted him . he was only the sixth federal judge ever ousted from office after an impeachment trial . with no floor debate , the senate on friday voted 69-26 to convict mr. hastings of perjury and conspiring to accept a bribe , five votes more than needed . conviction on any single impeachment article was enough to remove judge hastings from office . he was found not guilty of three charges , involving accusations that he had improperly disclosed information about a sensitive , government investigation . the senate did n't vote on six lesser charges . although mr. hastings had been acquitted by a jury , lawmakers handling the prosecution in congress had argued that the purpose of impeachment is n't to punish an individual . instead , they argued that impeachment aims to protect public institutions from people who have abused their positions of trust , irrespective of the outcome of prior criminal or civil cases . mr. hastings faced the senators and sat impassively during the first two roll-call votes , then quickly left the chamber . in an impromptu news conference on the capitol steps , he denounced the senators ' action . `` their opinion is devoid of the wisdom of the forefathers ' teaching regarding impeachment , '' mr. hastings said . for the future , he said 0 he would run for governor of florida . mr. hastings was appointed to the federal bench by president carter in 1979 and was one of the few black federal judges in the country . while he packed the senate gallery with his supporters during some of the impeachment trial , most civil rights groups kept their distance from his case . following the impeachment conviction , dr. benjamin hooks , executive director of the national association for the advancement of colored people , issued a restrained statement , warning that the hastings case could set a `` dangerous precedent , '' but adding , `` we must respect the considered judgment of the senate .