small investors matched their big institutional brethren in anxiety over the weekend , but most seemed to be taking a philosophical approach and said 0 they were resigned to riding out the latest storm in the stock market . `` i 'm not losing faith in the market , '' said boston lawyer christopher sullivan as he watched the market plunge on a big screen in front of a brokerage firm . but he 's not so sure about everyone else . `` i think 0 on monday the small -lrb- investors -rrb- are going to panic and sell , '' predicted mr. sullivan , whose investments include amr corp. 's american airlines unit and several mutual funds . `` and i think 0 institutions are going to come in and buy ... i 'm going to hold on . if i sell now , i 'll take a big loss . '' some evinced an optimism that had been rewarded when they did n't flee the market in 1987 . `` oh , i bet 0 it 'll be up 50 points on monday , '' said lucy crump , a 78-year-old retired housewife in lexington , ky . mrs. crump said 0 her ashwood investment club 's portfolio lost about one-third of its value following the black monday crash , `` but no one got discouraged , and we gained that back -- and more . '' at the annual congress of the national association of investors corp. at the hyatt regency hotel in minneapolis , the scene was calm . some 500 investors representing investor clubs from around the u.s. were attending when the market started to slide friday . but robert showalter , an official of the association , said 0 no special bulletins or emergency meetings of the investors ' clubs are planned . in fact , some of the association 's members -- long-term , buy-and-hold investors -- welcomed the drop in prices . `` we hope to take advantage of it , '' said john snyder , a member of a los angeles investors ' club . he has four stocks in mind 0 to buy if the prices drop to the level 0 he wants . not everyone is reacting so calmly , however , and many wonder about the long-term implications of what is widely viewed as the cause of friday 's slide , reluctance by banks to provide financing for a buy-out of ual corp. , parent of united airlines . marc perkins , a tampa , fla. , investment banker , said 0 the market drop is one of `` a tremendous number of signs that the leveraged take-out era is ending . there 's no question that there 's a general distaste for leverage among lenders . '' mr. perkins believes , however , that the market could be stabilized if california investor marvin davis steps back in to the united bidding with an offer of $ 275 a share . sara albert , a 34-year-old dallas law student , says 0 she 's generally skittish about the stock market and the takeover activity that seems to fuel it . `` i have this feeling that it 's built on sand , '' she says 0 , that the market rises `` but there 's no foundation to it . '' she and her husband pulled most of their investments out of the market after the 1987 crash , although she still owns some texaco stock . partly because of concern about the economy and partly because she recently quit her job as a legal assistant to go to school , `` i think at this point 0 we want to be a lot more liquid . '' others wonder how many more of these shocks the small investor can stand . `` we all assumed 0 october '87 was a one-time shot , '' said san francisco attorney david greenberg . `` we told the little guy 0 it could only happen once in a lifetime , come on back . now it 's happening again . '' mr. greenberg got out just before the 1987 crash and , to his regret , never went back even as the market soared . this time he 's ready to buy in `` when the panic wears off . '' still , he adds : `` we ca n't have this kind of thing happen very often . when the little guy gets frightened , the big guys hurt badly . merrill lynch ca n't survive without the little guy . '' small investors have tiptoed back into the market following black monday , but mostly through mutual funds . discount brokerage customers `` have been in the market somewhat but not whole hog like they were two years ago , '' says 0 leslie quick jr. , chairman of the quick & reilly discount brokerage firm . hugo quackenbush , senior vice president at charles scwhab corp. , says 0 schwab customers `` have been neutral to cautious recently about stocks . '' individual investors are still angry about program trading , mr. quackenbush says 0 . avner arbel , a cornell university finance professor , says 0 government regulators will have to more closely control program trading to `` win back the confidence of the small investor . '' but it 's not only the stock market that has some small investors worried . alan helfman , general sales manager of a chrysler dealership in houston , said 0 he and his mother have some joint stock investments , but the overall economy is his chief worry . `` these high rollers took a big bath today , '' he said in his showroom , which is within a few miles of the multi-million dollar homes of some of houston 's richest citizens . `` and i can tell you that a high roller is n't going to come in tomorrow and buy a chrysler tc by maserati . '' and , finally , there were the gloaters . `` i got out in 1987 . everything , '' said pascal antori , an akron , ohio , plumbing contractor who was visiting chicago and stopped by fidelity investments ' lasalle street office . `` i just stopped by to see how much i would have lost . '' would mr. antori ever get back in ? `` are you kidding ! when it comes to money : once bitten , 2,000 times shy .