reaching for that extra bit of yield can be a big mistake -- especially if you do n't understand what you 're investing in . just ask richard blumenfeld , a new jersey dentist who considers himself `` a reasonably sophisticated investor . '' in may 1986 , dr. blumenfeld gave merrill lynch & co. about $ 40,000 for a federally insured certificate of deposit offering an effective yield of more than 9 % . `` it was a time when interest rates came down very rapidly , '' dr. blumenfeld recalls . yields on five-year cds at major banks were averaging about 7.45 % , and 10-year treasury notes were paying less than 8 % . the cd seemed like a great deal . but nearly 3 1\/2 years later , merrill says 0 the investment is worth about $ 43,000 -- an amount that represents an annual return of just over 2 % on dr. blumenfeld 's $ 40,000 . the problem is that the cd 0 he bought for a retirement plan was n't a plain vanilla cd . instead , his merrill broker put him in a zero-coupon cd , which is sold at a deep discount to its face value . the difference between the price and the face value payable at maturity is the investor 's return . more important , the cd was purchased on the secondary , or resale , market . because the cd had an effective yield of 13.4 % when it was issued in 1984 , and interest rates in general had declined sharply since then , part of the price 0 dr. blumenfeld paid was a premium -- an additional amount on top of the cd 's base value plus accrued interest that represented the cd 's increased market value . now the thrift that issued the cd is insolvent , and dr. blumenfeld has learned to his surprise that the premium is n't insured under federal deposit insurance . the tip-off came when he opened a recent merrill lynch statement and found that the cd 's `` estimated current market value '' had plummeted by $ 9,000 in a month . several phone calls and a visit to his broker 's office later , the dentist found out that the $ 9,000 drop represented the current value of the premium 0 he paid when he bought the cd , and that the amount was n't insured . `` this is one thing 0 i was never aware of , '' he says . he assumed that principal and interest were `` fully insured up to $ 100,000 , '' he adds . dr. blumenfeld is n't unique . especially at times like these , when declining rates make it hard for investors to get yields 0 they have come to expect , too many people chase the promise of above-market returns without fully appreciating the risk . `` yield greed often gets in the way of understanding things , '' says john markese , research director of the american association of individual investors , a chicago-based educational group . `` the biggest problem 0 we have is that investors realize , after the fact , that they did n't understand what they were investing in . '' dr. blumenfeld concedes 0 he did n't fully understand what he was buying . he says that he knew 0 he was getting a zero-coupon cd and that he had previously invested in tigrs -lrb- treasury income growth receipts -rrb- , a type of zero-coupon treasury security sold by merrill lynch . but he says 0 he did n't understand 0 he was buying the cd on the secondary market , and he contends 0 his broker never fully explained the risks . the broker , thomas beairsto of merrill lynch 's morristown , n.j. , office , refuses to discuss the matter with a reporter , referring inquiries to merrill lynch officials in new york . those officials say 0 there was full disclosure of the risks in a `` fact sheet '' sent to all cd investors with their confirmation of sale . the fact sheet , dated april 1986 , says on page three : `` if the price paid for a cd purchased in the secondary market ... is higher than the accreted value in the case of zero-coupon cds , the difference ... is not insured ... . computations involving zero-coupon cds are more complicated and you should discuss any questions 0 you may have with your financial consultant . '' dr. blumenfeld says 0 he does n't remember the paragraph about premiums in the fact sheet 0 he received and did n't realize 0 part of what he paid was a premium . `` i assumed 0 i was buying a cd as a cd , '' he says . nevertheless , merrill lynch has agreed that if the thrift that issued dr. blumenfeld 's cd , peoples heritage federal savings & loan association in salina , kan. , is liquidated and the cd terminated , the brokerage firm would cover the premium 0 dr. blumenfeld paid . -lrb- federal deposit insurance would pay principal and interest accrued to the date of liquidation , to a maximum of $ 100,000 . -rrb- `` it 's not a blanket commitment , it 's a case-by-case situation , '' says albert disposti , a managing director of merrill lynch money markets inc . `` there 's a question whether brokers at the time were fully aware '' of the risks . `` we were n't sure that full disclosure , as we wanted it , was being made . '' merrill lynch says 0 it 's impossible to estimate how many investors are in dr. blumenfeld 's situation , although it says 0 the firm has received only one other complaint about premiums on the secondary market in three years . merrill lynch now provides credit rating information about the institutions whose cds it sells , which it did n't provide in 1986 . zero-coupon cds are only a small portion of the $ 1 trillion-plus in cds outstanding , and those purchased on the secondary market are an even smaller part of the total . merrill lynch estimates that fewer than 10 financial institutions currently issue zero-coupon cds . still , there are several billion dollars of zero-coupon cds with various maturities outstanding . because of the tax consequences of zero-coupon investments -- income tax is payable in the year 0 interest is accrued , although interest is n't actually paid until maturity -- zero-coupon cds are usually sold for tax-advantaged accounts to finance things like retirement and children 's education . most zero-coupon cds are in maturities of six to nine years , and they usually double in value by maturity . but investors who bought zero-coupon cds in the secondary market are n't the only ones who may be surprised to learn 0 the full amount of their investments is n't insured . people who paid a premium for standard cds purchased on the secondary market could also find that those premiums are n't insured if the institutions that issued the cds failed . however , those premiums are usually far smaller than on zero-coupon cds , and the simpler pricing structure of a standard cd makes it more apparent when a premium is paid . whatever the case , a merrill lynch spokesman emphasizes 0 , investors should n't have to worry about the uninsured premium issue , unless the bank or thrift that issued the cd is closed and its deposits paid off before maturity or transferred to another institution at a lower rate . dr. blumenfeld says 0 he 's satisfied that his problem has been resolved . and he says 0 he 's learned a lesson : `` you always have to watch out for yourself . no one else will watch out for you .