what does n't belong here ? a. manual typewriters , b. black-and-white snapshots , c. radio adventure shows . if you guessed black-and-white snapshots , you 're right . after years of fading into the background , two-tone photography is coming back . trendy magazine advertisements feature stark black-and-white photos of hollywood celebrities pitching jeans , shoes and liquor . portrait studios accustomed to shooting only in color report a rush to black-and-white portrait orders . and black-and-white photography classes are crowded with students . what 's happening in photography mirrors the popularity of black and white in fashion , home furnishings and cinematography . on seventh avenue , designers have been advancing the monochrome look with clothing collections done entirely in black and white . and classic black-and-white movies are enjoying a comeback on videocassette tapes , spurred , in part , by the backlash against colorization of old films . `` the pendulum is swinging back to black and white , '' says richard demoulin , the general manager of eastman kodak co. 's professional photography division . until two years ago , sales of black-and-white film had been declining steadily since the 1960s . but last year , buoyed by increased use in advertising and other commercial applications , sales increased 5 % , and they are expected to jump at least that much again this year . photographic companies are scrambling to tap the resurging market , reviving some black-and-white product lines and developing new ones . at kodak , which largely ignored the market for years , black-and-white film sales now account for nearly 15 % of the company 's $ 3 billion in film and paper sales annually , up from 10 % three years ago . the rochester , n.y. , photographic giant recently began marketing t-max 3200 , one of the fastest and most sensitive monochrome films . aimed at commercial photographers , the film can be used in very low light without sacrificing quality , says 0 donald franz of photofinishing newsletter . also trying to snare a portion of the $ 2 billion-a-year industry is agfa corp. , a unit of bayer ag . agfa recently signed olympic gold medalist florence griffith-joyner to endorse a new line of black-and-white paper that 's geared to consumers and will compete directly with kodak 's papers . slated for market by the end of the year , the paper `` could have been introduced a long time ago but the market was n't there then , '' says 0 an agfa spokesman . the biggest beneficiary of the black-and-white revival is likely to be international paper co. 's ilford division , known in the industry for its premium products . sales of ilford 's four varieties of black-and-white film this year are outpacing growth in the overall market , although the company wo n't say by exactly how much . `` we hope 0 the trend lasts , '' says laurie dicara , ilford 's marketing communications director . why all the interest ? for baby boomers who grew up being photographed in color , black and white seems eye-catching and exotic . `` it has an archival , almost nostalgic quality to it , '' says owen b. butler , the chairman of the applied photography department at rochester institute of technology . `` you can shift out of reality with black and white , '' he adds 0 . such features have been especially attractive to professional photographers and marketing executives , who have been steadily increasing their use of black and white in advertising . processing of black-and-white commercial film jumped 24 % last year to 18.7 million rolls . consider gap inc. , whose latest ad campaign features black-and-white shots of hollywood stars , artists and other well-known personalities modeling the retailer 's jeans and t-shirts . richard crisman , the account manager for the campaign , says 0 gap did n't intentionally choose black and white to distinguish its ads from the color spreads of competitors . `` we wanted to highlight the individual , not the environment , '' he says , `` and black and white allows you to do that better than color . '' the campaign won a cleo award as this year 's best ad by a specialty retailer . even food products and automobiles , which have long depended on color , are making the switch . companies `` feel 0 black and white will convey a stronger statement , '' says 0 marc l. hauser , a chicago photographer who is working on a black-and-white print ad for stouffer food corp. 's lean cuisine . other companies that are currently using two-tone ads include american express co. and epson america inc . portrait studios have also latched onto the trend . using black and white , `` we can make housewives look like stars , '' says 0 john perrin . his on-broadway photography studio in portland , ore. , doubled its business last year and , he says 0 , is booked solid for the next five . one customer , dayna brunsdon , says 0 she spurned a color portrait for black and white because `` it 's more dramatic . i show it to my friends , and they all say ` wow . ' it is n't ordinary like color . '' still , most consumers are n't plunking black-and-white film into their cameras to take family snapshots . one big obstacle is that few drugstores develop the film anymore . typically , it must be mailed to a handful of processors and may take a week or more to be processed and returned . black-and-white film costs consumers a little less than color film , and processing costs the same . but for photofinishers , developing costs for black-and-white film are higher . some companies are starting to tackle that problem . ilford , for example , recently introduced a black-and-white film that can be processed quickly by color labs . intent on wooing customers , the company is also increasing its sponsorship of black-and-white photography classes . similarly , agfa is sponsoring scores of photography contests at high schools and colleges , offering free black-and-white film and paper as prizes . and kodak is distributing an instructional video to processors on how to develop its monochrome film more efficiently . other companies are introducing related products . charles beseler co. , a leading maker of photographic enlargers , introduced last month a complete darkroom starter kit targeted at teen-agers who want to process their own black-and-white photographs . the kit , which has a suggested retail price of $ 250 and has already become a bestseller , was introduced after retailers noticed numerous requests from parents for children 's photography equipment . `` it seems 0 computers as hobbies have waned , '' says ian brightman , beseler 's chairman and chief executive officer . but some industry observers believe 0 the resurgence of black and white is only a fad . they cite the emergence of still electronic photography , more newspapers turning to color on their pages and measurable improvements in the quality of color prints . `` black and white has n't made the same quantum leaps in technological development as color , '' says mr. butler of the rochester institute . `` the color print today is far superior to prints of 10 years ago . you ca n't say the same with black and white . '' but when popular photography , a leading magazine for photographers , selected 15 of the greatest photos ever made for its latest issue celebrating photography 's 150th anniversary , all were black and white . `` it 's got a classic spirit and carries over emotionally , '' says alfred debat of professional photographers of america . `` that 's the appeal .