at a private dinner thursday , drexel burnham lambert inc. chief executive frederick joseph delivered a sobering message about the junk bond market to officials of prudential insurance co. of america . mr. joseph conceded 0 the junk market was in disarray , according to people familiar with the discussion . he said 0 drexel -- the leading underwriter of high-risk junk bonds -- could no longer afford to sell any junk offerings if they might later become troubled because drexel risked losing its highly lucrative junk franchise . the dinner was a stark confirmation that 1989 is the worst year ever for the $ 200 billion junk market . and investors and traders alike say 0 the current turmoil could take years to resolve . amid the market disorder , even drexel , which has the widest and most loyal following of junk bond investors , is pulling in its horns . although the big investment bank still dominates the junk market , drexel has been unable to stem the fallout from growing junk bond defaults , withdrawn new offerings , redemptions by shareholders in junk bond mutual funds and an exodus of once-devoted investors . for many money managers , the past four months have been humiliating . `` this is the worst shakeout ever in the junk market , and it could take years before it 's over , '' says mark bachmann , a senior vice president at standard & poor 's corp. , a credit rating company . in the third quarter , for example , junk bonds -- those with less than an investment-grade rating -- showed negative returns , the only major sector of the bond market 0 to do so . since the end of last year , junk bonds have been outperformed by all categories of investment-grade bonds , including ultra-safe treasury securities . the junk market , which mushroomed to $ 200 billion from less than $ 2 billion at the start of the decade , has been declining for months as issuers have stumbled under the weight of hefty interest payments . the fragile market received its biggest jolt last month from campeau corp. , which created its u.s. retailing empire with more than $ 3 billion in junk financing . campeau developed a cash squeeze that caused it to be tardy on some interest payments and to put its prestigious bloomingdale 's department store chain up for sale . at that point , the junk market went into a tailspin as buyers disappeared and investors tried to sell . in an interview , mr. joseph says 0 his dinner discussion with the prudential executives acknowledged problems for junk . `` what i thought 0 i was saying is that the market is troubled but still viable and , appropriately enough , quite quality-conscious , which is not at all bad , '' he says . `` nobody 's been perfect in their credit judgments the past couple years , and we 're going to make sure 0 our default rates are going to be in the acceptable parameters of the market . '' what has jolted many junk buyers is the sudden realization that junk bonds can not necessarily be bought and sold with the ease of common stocks and many investment-grade bonds . unlike the new york stock exchange , where buyers and sellers are quickly matched , the junk market , where risky corporate loans are traded , is sometimes closed for repairs . at closely held deltec securities corp. , junk bond money managers amy k. minella and hannah h. strasser say 0 the problems of the junk market go deeper than a temporary malaise . in recent months , they say 0 , there has been heavy selling of junk bonds by some of the market 's traditional investors , while new buyers have n't materialized to replace them . wall street securities firms , `` the primary source of liquidity for the high yield market , '' have been net sellers of junk bonds because of trading losses , deltec said 0 in a recent , grim report to customers . mutual funds have also been net sellers of junk bonds as junk 's relatively poor performance and negative press coverage have produced `` above-normal '' redemptions by shareholders , deltec said 0 . investors , trying to raise cash , have sold `` large liquid issues '' such as rjr holdings corp. and kroger co. ; declines in these benchmark issues have contributed to the market 's distress . and , deltec said 0 , buying has been severely reduced because savings and loans have been restricted in their junk purchases by recently passed congressional legislation . `` in fact , savings and loans were sellers of high yield holdings throughout the quarter , '' deltec said . ms. minella and ms. strasser say 0 they are managing their junk portfolios defensively , building cash and selectively upgrading the overall quality . meanwhile , prudential , the nation 's largest insurer and the biggest investor in junk bonds , has seen the value of its junk bond portfolio drop to $ 6.5 billion from $ 7 billion since august because of falling junk prices . `` we certainly do have a lack of liquidity here , and it 's something 0 to be concerned about , '' says james a. gregoire , a managing director . `` i have no reason 0 to think 0 things will get worse , but this market has a knack for surprising us . this market teaches us to be humble . '' the junk market 's `` yield hogs are learning a real painful lesson , '' he says 0 . although the majority of junk bonds outstanding show no signs of default , the market has downgraded many junk issues as if they were in trouble , says 0 stuart reese , manager of aetna life & casualty insurance co. 's $ 17 billion investment-grade public bond portfolio . `` but we think 0 the risks are there for things getting a lot worse . and the risks are n't appropriate for us , '' he says . the big insurer , unlike prudential , owns only about $ 150 million of publicly sold junk bonds . the string of big junk bond defaults , which have been a major cause of the market 's problems this year , probably will persist , some analysts say 0 . `` if anything , we 're going to see defaults increase because credit ratings have declined , '' says paul asquith , associate professor at the massachusetts institute of technology 's sloan school of management . mr. asquith , whose study on junk bond defaults caused a furor on wall street when it was disclosed last april , says 0 this year 's junk bond defaults already show a high correlation with his own findings . his study showed that junk bonds over time had a cumulative default rate of 34 % . one indication of a growing number of junk defaults , mr. asquith says 0 , is that about half of the $ 3 billion of corporate bonds outstanding that have been lowered to a default rating by s&p this year are junk bonds sold during the market 's big issue years of 1984 through 1986 . these bonds , now rated single-d , include junk offerings by ap industries , columbia savings -lrb- colorado -rrb- , first texas savings association , gilbraltar financial corp. , integrated resources inc. , metropolitan broadcasting corp. , resorts international inc. , southmark corp. and vyquest inc . `` obviously , we got a lot more smoke than fire from the people who told us 0 the market was n't so risky , '' says bradford cornell , professor of finance at university of california 's anderson graduate school of management in los angeles . mr. cornell has just completed a study that finds that the risks and returns of junk bonds are less than on common stocks but more than on investment-grade bonds . mr. cornell says : `` the junk market is no bonanza as drexel claimed 0 , but it also is n't a disaster as the doomsayers say 0 . '' despite the junk market 's problems , drexel continues to enjoy a loyalty among junk bond investors that its wall street rivals have n't found . during the past three weeks , for example , drexel has sold $ 1.3 billion of new junk bonds for turner broadcasting co. , uniroyal chemical , continental air and duff & phelps . still , the list of troubled drexel bond offerings dwarfs that of any firm on wall street , as does its successful offerings . troubled drexel-underwritten issues include resorts international , braniff , integrated resources , sci tv , gillette holdings , western electric and southmark . `` quality junk bonds will continue to trade well , '' says michael holland , chairman of salomon brothers asset management inc . `` but the deals that never should have been brought have now become nuclear waste .