japan air lines , lufthansa german airlines and air france reportedly plan to form an international air-freight company this year , a move that could further consolidate the industry . japanese newspaper nihon keizai shimbun reported that the three giants plan to integrate their cargo computers and ground-cargo and air-cargo systems . they reportedly will invest a total of 20 billion yen -lrb- $ 140 million -rrb- in the venture , whose headquarters would be in france or west germany . the action follows federal express corp. 's acquisition of flying tiger line inc. in august . after that , `` it would make sense for airlines to talk about doing things jointly , '' said 0 cotton daly , director of cargo services for new york consulting firm simat , helliesen & eichner inc . mr. daly said 0 such discussions are motivated by the competitive threat posed by federal express , united parcel service of america inc. and other fast-growing air-freight companies . many airlines are talking about cargo ventures , and there have been rumors about such a tie between jal and european airlines . in tokyo , a jal spokesman said 0 he could n't confirm or deny the latest japanese report . but he said 0 jal is talking to lufthansa and air france about some sort of cargo venture . `` it is just one of a number of strategies 0 jal has embarked upon to come to terms with the situation in europe after 1992 , '' the deadline for ending trade barriers in the ec , he said 0 . in frankfurt , a lufthansa spokesman confirmed 0 talks are under way , but declined to comment . a lufthansa spokeswoman in tokyo said 0 the head of lufthansa 's cargo operations had been in toyko last week for talks with jal . in paris , air france declined to comment . `` nothing is defined or signed at this point , '' mr. daly said of the talks . whatever accord the three carriers reach , he said 0 , he is skeptical 0 it would create a separate airline . if the three companies pool their air-freight businesses , their clout would be considerable . according to figures from the international air transport association , they carried a combined 1.8 million tons of freight last year . federal express and flying tiger , as separate companies , carried a combined 2.6 million tons . air france and lufthansa last month concluded a far-reaching cooperation accord that includes air-freight activities . they plan to increase cooperation in freight ground-handling and create a world-wide computer system 0 to process cargo . other airlines would have access to the system , they said 0 , and negotiations with partners were already under way . both european airlines operate extensive fleets of boeing 747 freighters and 747 combis , aircraft that carry both freight and passengers on the main deck . they currently have large orders for cargo planes . several airlines , including lufthansa , jal and cathay pacific airways , are working on a so-called global cargo system and are trying to attract other carriers to join , mr. daly said 0 . jal also has signaled 0 it is looking for toeholds in europe before the end of 1992 . last month , the carrier said 0 it wanted to lease crews and planes from british airways so it could funnel its passengers from london to other european destinations . british airways said 0 it has n't received a proposal from jal . but last week there were air-traffic negotiations between the u.k. and japan , a likely first step to any commercial agreement between jal and british airways or another u.k. carrier .