a permanent smoking ban on virtually all domestic airline routes won approval from the house , which separately sent to president bush a nearly $ 67 billion fiscal 1990 bill including the first construction funds for the space station . the smoking prohibition remains attached to a $ 27.1 billion transportation bill that must still overcome budget obstacles in congress . but yesterday 's action put to rest any lingering resistance from tobacco interests . faced with inevitable defeat , the once dominant industry declined any recorded vote on the ban , which covers all but a fraction of 1 % of daily flights in the u.s. . the sole exceptions are an estimated 30 flights of six hours or more beginning or ending in hawaii and alaska . assuming final enactment this month , the prohibition will take effect 96 days later , or in early february . on a 394-21 roll call , the house adopted the underlying transportation measure . but the bill still faces budget questions because it also is the vehicle for an estimated $ 3.1 billion in supplemental appropriations for law enforcement and anti-drug programs . the additional spending pushes the measure more than $ 2 billion above its prescribed budget ceiling , and the house appropriations committee leadership must now seek a waiver in hopes of completing action today . the separate $ 67 billion bill sent to the white house had budget difficulties , too , but was saved ultimately by its importance to a broad spectrum of interests in congress and the administration itself . no single bill this year includes more discretionary spending for domestic programs and , apart from the space station , the measure incorporates far-reaching provisions affecting the federal mortgage market . the current ceiling on home loans insured by the federal housing administration is increased to $ 124,875 during fiscal 1990 . and in anticipation of increased lending , the cap on fha loan guarantees would rise to approximately $ 73.8 billion . separately , the bill gives authority to the department of housing and urban development to facilitate the refinancing of high-interest loans subsidized by the government under the so-called section 235 home-ownership program for lower-income families . this provision met early and strong resistance from investment bankers worried about disruptions in their clients ' portfolios . but the promise of at least $ 15 million in new savings helped to forge a partnership between hud secretary jack kemp and lawmakers wanting to protect their projects elsewhere . the estimated $ 1.8 billion for the space station would be double last year 's level , and total appropriations for the national aeronautics and space administration would grow 16 % to nearly $ 12.4 billion . a string of costly projects , including the high-speed national aerospace plane and the advanced communications technology satellite , would continue to be developed within these limits . and while imposing a statutory cap of $ 1.6 billion on future spending , the bill would give nasa $ 30 million for the start-up of the craf-cassini mission , a successor to the voyager space probe . separately , the national science foundation is promised a 7.7 % increase to bring its appropriations to $ 2.07 billion . and while pursuing these initiatives , congress and the white house are squeezed too by steady increases -- $ 551 million -- in veteran 's medical care . the result is that all sides resort to sleight of hand to make room for competing housing and environmental programs , and the commitments now will drive excess spending into fiscal 1991 . senior members of the house budget committee are reduced in frustration to raising doomed parliamentary obstacles to individual bills , yet admit that much of the disorder now stems from the fiscal legerdemain associated with their own summit agreement with the white house this past spring . `` it 's hard to get the administration 's attention on anything , '' said rep. bill frenzel -lrb- r. , minn. -rrb- , `` because the whole agreement was built on gimmickry . '' among the subsidies continued in the transportation bill is $ 30.7 million 0 to maintain commercial air service for an estimated 92 communities , often in rural areas . senate appropriations committee chairman robert byrd -lrb- d. , w.va . -rrb- strongly resisted deeper cuts sought by the house . but at a time when the white house wants to kill the entire program , republicans have been among its leading champions . sen. pete domenici -lrb- r. , n.m. -rrb- , the ranking republican on the senate budget committee , used his influence to preserve more than $ 132,000 in subsidies for air service to sante fe , n.m. , and more than $ 2.1 million would go for service to eight communities in the western nebraska district of gop rep. virginia smith on the house appropriations committee . gp express , an independent airline serving much of nebraska , estimates that nearly 40 % of its revenues come from the subsidies that , in some cases , exceed the cost of a ticket . for example , a passenger can fly from chardon , neb. , to denver for as little as $ 89 to $ 109 , according to prices quoted by the company . but given the few number of users , the cost to the federal government per passenger is estimated at $ 193 , according to house and senate appropriations committees . the house action yesterday came as the senate remained mired in difficulties over a $ 17.25 billion measure covering the budgets for the state , commerce , and justice departments in fiscal 1990 . the compromise bill passed the house last week but has now provoked jurisdictional fights with the senate foreign relations committee , which jealously protects its prerogatives over operations at the state department . the same jealousy can breed confusion , however , in the absence of any authorization bill this year . house and senate appropriators sought to establish a nov. 30 deadline after which their bill would become the last word on how funds are distributed . but on a 53-45 roll call this provision was stripped from the bill last night after foreign relations chairman claiborne pell -lrb- d. , r.i . -rrb- complained that it was an intrusion on exclusive powers vested in his panel for more than three decades .