a house-senate conference approved a permanent smoking ban on all domestic airline routes within the continental u.s. and on all flights of six hours or less to alaska and hawaii . the restrictions would cover all but a small percentage of domestic air traffic , and represent a major expansion of the current smoking ban on flights of two hours or less . the exemption allowed on longer flights to alaska and hawaii appears to be largely a face-saving concession for the traditionally powerful tobacco industry , which has found itself increasingly isolated in the face of public pressure in recent years . by a 6-4 margin , house negotiators initially rejected last night a senate provision covering all domestic flights . but the six-hour compromise was soon agreed to in subsequent discussions . as a practical matter , flights from the west coast to hawaii would be covered as they are under the time limit , but the language would exempt longer routes beginning , for example , in chicago or on the east coast . within the senate , the ban has had aggressive support from sen. frank lautenberg -lrb- d. , n.j. -rrb- , who has used his position as a senate appropriations subcommittee chairman to garner votes for the initiative . the measure is attached to the more than $ 26 billion fiscal 1990 transportation bill within mr. lautenberg 's jurisdiction , and the final compromise is laced with more than $ 205 million in road projects earmarked by members as well as funds sought by major airports , including denver . from the outset , the tobacco industry has been uncertain as to what strategy to follow . but the industry retains support in the house leadership through the influence of grower states , such as north carolina . majority whip william gray owes a political debt to southern agriculture lawmakers for his rise in the house , and the philadelphia democrat used his position in the conference to salvage the exemption from a total ban . although the smoking provision has attracted the most public interest , the underlying bill was the subject of behind-the-scenes lobbying because of its impact on air transportation and the more mundane , but politically important , projects of members . in a stark lesson in the power of the appropriations committees , the house deliberately killed a handful of projects backed by lawmakers in florida , illinois and pennsylvania who had voted against the panel leadership on the house floor . `` anybody can vote as they want , '' said rep. william lehman -lrb- d. , fla. -rrb- , head of the house conferees . `` but if you make a request , you should support the committee . '' within the federal aviation administration , the final bill promises to increase spending for facilities and equipment by more than 20 % from last year , and total operations would rise to $ 3.84 billion -- a 12 % boost . the facilities account includes $ 40 million for denver 's ambitious new airport , and the competition for these funds created shifting alliances between urban lawmakers representing established airports in philadelphia and michigan and the major carriers to denver , united and continental . leery of the costs -- and , critics say , competition -- the airlines have sought to gain leverage over the city of denver . texas air corp. , which owns continental , and the air transport association were prominent in the lobbying . the industry sought to impose conditions that would have delayed funds for the project until denver and the airlines had agreed to leases for 50 % of the gates . but this was rejected in favor of much looser language directing the transportation department to review the costs of the first phase , expected to cost about $ 2 billion . though smaller in total dollars , the conference agreed to preserve an estimated $ 30.6 million in controversial subsidies to carriers serving rural or isolated airports . the sum is more than double what the house had approved for the program , but the list of qualified airports would be cut by 22 under new distance requirements and limits on the level of subsidy . congress previously cut six airports this year . the impact of the changes is to eliminate many of the most excessive cases where the government has been paying more than $ 200 for each passenger in subsidies . among rail and highway accounts , the agreement provides $ 615 million for amtrak , including $ 85 million for capital improvements . and federal-formula grants for mass transit would be effectively frozen at $ 1.625 billion , or $ 20 million more than last fiscal year .