a house-senate conference approved an estimated $ 67 billion fiscal 1990 spending bill that provides a 28 % increase for space research and development and incorporates far-reaching provisions affecting the federal mortgage market . the current ceiling on home loans insured by the federal housing administration would be increased to $ 124,875 . separately , the bill gives authority to the bush administration to facilitate the refinancing of federally subsidized loans for low-income and moderate-income homeowners . the second provision , affecting so-called 235 mortgages , has met strong opposition from investment bankers represented by the public securities association . and a squad of influential former senate aides employed by the wall street firm salomon brothers came to the capitol in a vain attempt to strip the provision . by an 11-2 margin , senate negotiators voted to preserve the 235 mortgage refinancing plan , and despite powerful allies , the opposition found itself undercut by an unusual alliance of liberals and conservatives . the government currently is subsidizing an estimated 23,000 loans above 11 % under the 235 program , and however disruptive to private investors , the refinancing is expected to yield at least $ 15 million in savings in fiscal 1990 . this sum has been guarded jealously by appropriators anxious to offset spending elsewhere , and conservative sen. phil gramm cast the fight as a populist stand against monied interests . `` we are stewards here , not of the mortgage companies , but the taxpayers , '' said the texas republican . the action came as the administration won final congressional approval of $ 9 million in assistance for elections scheduled in nicaragua in february . the bulk of the money would be funneled through the national endowment for democracy , but the legislation is so vaguely written that it has been dogged by questions regarding the money 's true purpose and its ultimate destination . the senate had refused late friday to invoke cloture and limit debate , but behind the bipartisan leadership , a solid majority took shape yesterday and brushed aside amendments seeking to cut the total package or steer it away from direct aid to political parties . final approval -- on a 64-35 roll call -- was never in doubt , but the opposition drew an unusual mix of senators , including republicans jesse helms and warren rudman and democrats bill bradley and john glenn . the money will be applied for voter registration and election monitoring , but more than half is likely to go to the union nacional opositora party . critics warned 0 such cash contributions may only undercut the opposition party 's standing , and one irony is that under nicaraguan law a major portion of the opposition party 's funds must be shared with the government 's supreme electoral council . within the appropriations conference yesterday , the $ 67 billion measure is the second largest of the annual domestic spending bills and covers a disparate collection of accounts for science , housing , veterans and the environment . the decision to raise the ceiling on fha home loans still faces strong opposition in the house . but it is driven by the same fiscal pressures that have forced lawmakers to resort to various bookkeeping devices to juggle as much as $ 1 billion in spending that would otherwise put the bill over budget . these costs will complicate the budget picture in fiscal 1991 , and the measure further commits congress to a set of costly projects , including the first construction funds for the space station . the station is promised $ 1.8 billion within the $ 5.36 billion provided for research and development in the national aeronautics and space administration , and the nation 's high-speed aerospace plane -- cut by the senate -- could receive as much as $ 60 million in new funds or transfers . similarly , the house agreed to add back $ 62 million to continue work on the advanced communications technology satellite , being developed by general electric co . and while setting a statutory limit of $ 1.6 billion on the automated space probe , the conference appropriated $ 30 million for the start-up of the craf-cassini mission , a successor to the voyager space probe . among major domestic agencies , the environmental protection agency stands to receive increases significantly beyond those sought by the administration , with pollution abatement and control accounts growing by 14 % to about $ 829.9 million . an estimated $ 1.57 billion is separately allocated for the national science foundation , and within the housing and urban development department , more than $ 9.2 billion is provided for federally assisted housing , including an expanded effort to modernize public housing units that serve the poorest families . to an unusual degree , the massive bill has become a vehicle 0 for lawmakers to earmark funds for projects in home states . while the practice was discouraged in the past , the conference agreement is laced with veterans ' hospitals , environmental projects and urban grants designated for specific communities . the most striking example yesterday may have been in community development funds , where the two houses had separately approved a total of 27 projects valued at $ 20 million , and the conference added 15 more valued at $ 8 million to ostensibly preserve `` balance '' between the house and senate . yesterday 's conference agreement is the second major bill 0 to emerge from negotiations this week , as appropriators approved a fiscal 1990 transportation bill late monday that includes a sweeping ban on smoking on most domestic airline flights . an exemption will remain for flights longer than six hours to hawaii and alaska , but estimates by the tobacco industry yesterday indicate 0 all but about 30 flights would be covered . separately , a third conference report covering an $ 18.4 billion treasury and postal service bill was sent to the senate after passing the house on a 383-30 roll call yesterday . and after weeks of delay , the appropriations process is beginning to take some final shape . defense and foreign aid are the two most critical areas remaining from the administration 's standpoint . and among domestic programs , the most serious threat is white house opposition to abortion riders attached to separate bills funding the district of columbia and department of health and human services . the same issue threatens to spill over to the foreign aid debate , and mr. bush also is threatening to veto any agreement that preserves senate-passed provisions renewing u.s. support for the united nations fund for population activities . in a sharply written letter , rep. david obey , chairman of the house appropriations subcommittee for foreign operations , warned mr. bush that the result of his `` ultimatum '' could weaken efforts to accommodate the administration elsewhere . `` as a result of your ultimatum , '' writes the wisconsin democrat , `` i guess 0 there is no longer any point in taking administration views into account on other items in conference , inasmuch regardless of their resolution you apparently intend to veto this bill .