mccaw cellular communications inc. said 0 it obtained `` firm '' financing commitments from three major banks in regard to its offer for 50.3 % of lin broadcasting corp . morgan guaranty trust , toronto-dominion bank and provident national bank , an affiliate of pnc financial corp. , jointly committed $ 1.2 billion of financing , subject to certain conditions , mccaw said 0 . further , mccaw said 0 the banks expressed confidence that the balance of the $ 4.5 billion bank facility will be committed within the next several weeks by a syndicate of foreign and domestic banks . morgan , toronto-dominion and provident are leading that syndicate . mccaw is offering to buy 22 million shares of lin for $ 125 each in cash , which would result in mccaw owning 50.3 % of the cellular-phone and broadcasting concern . the offer is in limbo , however , because lin has agreed to merge its cellular-phone businesses with bellsouth corp . in national over-the-counter trading friday , lin shares rose 62.5 cents to close at $ 110.625 . beijing lawmakers have called for jails to be built to house prostitutes and for severe punishment , including the death sentence , for anyone who induces or coerces women into prostitution . the official xinhua news agency said 0 the municipal government was discussing a draft bill 0 to give the capital its first anti-prostitution statutes . it quoted liu changyi , deputy director of the beijing public security bureau , as saying that there were many more people involved in prostitution now than in 1985 , when there were about 100 cases . foreigners involved in prostitution will be punished according to the law , and those with sexually transmitted diseases will be expelled from the country , according to the regulations . the communists nearly succeeded in eliminating prostitution after taking over in 1949 , but the practice has returned in recent years with the country 's increased exposure to the outside world . japan agreed to enforce a decision by an international wildlife conference to ban all trade in ivory , a spokesman for the ministry of international trade and industry said . earlier , japan had said 0 it might file a reservation against the ivory ban decided by ballot at the 103-nation united nations conference on international trade in endangered species in switzerland last week . the japanese use 40 % of the world 's ivory . italy should close the leaning tower of pisa because it 's a danger to tourists , government-appointed experts said 0 . `` in some places the stonework is so damaged 0 it shows signs of breaking off , '' scientists and technicians said in a report to public works minister giovanni prandini . each year , nearly a million people pay about $ 3 to make the spiral climb up 294 steps to the top of the 800-year-old marble tower . east germany pledged to reduce alcohol consumption by boosting production of soft drinks and fruit juices . trade and supply minister gerhard briksa said in a letter published in the youth daily junge welt that the rise in alcohol consumption in east germany had been halted ; but to reduce it further , he said , production and supply of other beverages , including fruit juices , should be stepped up . he added that shops will have to continue reducing their stocks of liquor and avoid displaying them too prominently in the window . hong kong has built a detention center for illegal immigrants from china because china has refused for the past two weeks to accept them back . the center , close to hong kong 's border with china , will be ready today and will be able to house 1,000 inmates , police deputy director peter wong said 0 . the dispute started when china , angry that hong kong had allowed dissident swimmer yang yang to flee to the u.s. , halted the usual daily transfer of illegal immigrants caught in this british colony , which reverts to beijing 's control in 1997 . sweating under the glare of newly installed television lights , british members of parliament demanded a halt to the experimental televising of debates . a group of senior conservative legislators , complaining 0 the house of commons was like a sauna , demanded that the experiment be stopped unless the intensity of the lights is reduced . one conservative mp , david wilshire , said : `` i should have a wonderful suntan by christmas . '' debates are due to be broadcast nationally starting nov. 21 in a six-month experiment . a majority of japanese banks are said to be wary of making new loans to mexico under the brady plan because they 're uncertain 0 the mexican economy will remain stable . instead , many small and medium-sized banks , and some larger ones , are likely to take one of the other two options open to them under the plan , japanese banking officials said 0 . the plan , proposed by u.s. secretary of state nicholas brady , calls for banks either to make new loans or to reduce the principle on existing loans or to cut the interest rate on those existing loans . the officials said that most japanese banks prefer the losses 0 they 'd suffer in either of the latter options to the risk of new lending . but an official at a long-term credit bank explained that since some larger banks have already taken loss provisions for loans to other third world nations , further write-offs could be viewed as intolerable . `` they ca n't take the hit '' to their earnings , he said 0 . as a result , the official said 0 , they may be forced into a no-win situation in which they make risky loans that they could have to write off later . a poll in male-dominated south korea put margaret thatcher first on a list of most-respected foreign leaders . the british prime minister was the only woman singled out by respondents , who put soviet president mikhail gorbachev in second place ... . the soviet newspaper trud reported that mickey mouse will appear in a russian-language comic book 0 to be issued four times a year by soviet publisher fizkultura i sport and denmark 's gutenberghus group . the comic book will cost about $ 2 .