few people in the advertising business have raised as many hackles as alvin a. achenbaum . the general public may not know his name , but he 's famous -- make that infamous -- in advertising circles : a marketing consultant , he pioneered slashing ad agency commissions , to the delight of advertising clients and the dismay of agencies . now , after beating them , mr. achenbaum is joining them . backer spielvogel bates worldwide named mr. achenbaum , 62 , vice chairman of professional services , reporting directly to carl spielvogel , chairman and chief executive officer . he joins nov. 13 , dissolving his consulting firm , canter , achenbaum associates . in years past , the ad industry 's most distinguished executives did n't hesitate to excorciate mr. achenbaum . they have since mellowed , although one senior young & rubicam executive , echoing others , said : `` i think 0 ad agencies owe carl -lcb- spielvogel -rcb- a vote of thanks for getting him out of the consulting business . '' but industry executives also believe 0 hiring mr. achenbaum is a shrewd move for backer spielvogel , a unit of saatchi & saatchi . mr. achenbaum has counted among his clients some of the most visible blue-chip advertisers in the country , including nissan , toyota , seagram and backer spielvogel clients hyundai and j.p. morgan . at backer spielvogel , he will work with clients and potential clients on marketing strategies ; aside from agency compensation issues , he helped nissan , for example , come up with its positioning and pricing for its new infiniti line . his client contacts , meanwhile , could prove a gold mine for an agency that has had few new business wins of late . `` i 've done over 40 ad agency searches -lcb- for clients -rcb- , so i have a pretty good notion of what clients are interested in when they look for an agency , '' mr. achenbaum said . as a consultant , he has given seminars at agencies including ogilvy & mather on how to win new business . mr. spielvogel said 0 he hopes 0 mr. achenbaum will do some strategic consulting at the agency for `` non-clients , in hopes that they become clients . '' at backer spielvogel , mr. spielvogel 's hallmark has been personal involvement with all major clients . he pampers them ; he invites them to fabulous parties ; he strokes them . mr. achenbaum , too , delves into his clients ' business . `` carl has a much higher degree of intimacy with his clients than is ordinary for an agency his size . and with al 's record of being a delver and a detail guy , you can see how the two fit , '' said alan gottesman , an analyst with painewebber . mr. achenbaum 's move follows the announcement last month that his consulting partner , stanley canter , 66 , would retire . when the announcement came out , `` i picked up the phone and said , ` why do n't you come to us ? ' '' mr. spielvogel said 0 . mr. achenbaum , who had been considering paring down his firm or merging it with another small consulting outfit , soon agreed . the two men are longtime friends and tennis partners , having met about 25 years ago . before becoming a consultant in 1974 , mr. achenbaum was a senior executive at j. walter thompson co . he spent most of his career formulating marketing strategies , but became best-known for chipping away at ad agency compensation . ad agencies typically earned a straight 15 % commission ; if a client spent $ 100 million on tv time , the agency made $ 15 million . but mr. achenbaum pioneered negotiated fees , which often worked out to less than 15 % . more recently , he negotiated `` indemnification '' clauses in which an ad agency in some cases must pay a client if it drops the account . he ultimately became so well-known for cutting compensation , however , that clients did n't seek him out for anything else . `` i was very frustrated , '' he said . `` the fact of the matter is , 0 i am a marketer . that 's another reason -lcb- for the backer spielvogel job -rcb- . it struck me as a way 0 to get back to what i really want to do . '' mr. spielvogel added pointedly : `` the pressure on commissions did n't begin with al achenbaum . '' mr. spielvogel said 0 mr. achenbaum will work with clients to determine the mix of promotion , merchandising , publicity and other marketing outlets , and to integrate those services . he will concentrate on , among others , j.p. morgan and hyundai . mr. achenbaum helped morgan in its recent agency search , and he has a long relationship with hyundai , which is having severe troubles , including declining sales . `` the trail of revenue is increasingly going away from pure advertising , and going towards other services , '' mr. spielvogel said . instead of being just an ad agency , he said 0 : `` we have redefined our mission here . our mission is to help our clients grow , and to use every tool of marketing communications to accomplish that . '' industry executives are wishing mr. achenbaum well . leonard matthews , then-president of the american association of advertising agencies , called mr. achenbaum a `` quisling '' in an incendiary 1987 speech . yesterday , mr. matthews , now a consultant with the stamford , conn. , firm matthews & johnston , quipped , `` i think 0 he 'll be very good at that -lcb- new job -rcb- . and much better at that than at -lcb- the price-cutting -rcb- 0 he 's been doing recently . '' cotton inc . campaign cotton inc. , the fiber company that represents cotton growers , will begin a new ad campaign , developed by ogilvy & mather , thanksgiving day . j. nicholas hahn , cotton inc. 's president and chief executive , was an outspoken critic of wpp group 's acquisition of ogilvy group earlier this year . during the takeover , mr. hahn said 0 he would put his account up for review if wpp 's bid were successful , but he did n't . cotton inc. 's new $ 9 million campaign calls cotton the `` fabric of our lives . '' the campaign replaces its `` take comfort in cotton '' ads and marks the end of its national cooperative advertising efforts . for years , the company 's ads were tied in with pitches for cannon sheets or martex towels , for example , and an announcer at the end of the ads would tell customers where to `` find the true performance label . '' with the new tv spots , ogilvy & mather has opted for a family style with lots of laughter , hugs and tears . `` we 're making a fairly obvious plea for some emotional reaction , '' says tom rost , creative director at ogilvy & mather . cotton inc. will spend nearly $ 2 million on broadcasting on thanksgiving day alone , advertising on such programs as `` good morning america , '' `` macy 's thanksgiving day parade '' and the nfl holiday game . frank mingo dies at 49 frank l. mingo , one of the pioneers of advertising targeted at black audiences , died at the age of 49 after a stroke . mr. mingo was chief executive officer of the mingo group , which he founded in 1977 and which created ads for the black market . clients include miller brewing co. and general motors . mr. mingo was hospitalized sept. 23 and died monday , according to samuel j. chisholm , the agency 's president and chief operating officer . ad notes ... . earnings : omnicom group inc. , new york , reported 0 third-quarter net income rose 54 % to $ 5.6 million , or 22 cents a share , from $ 3.6 million , or 15 cents a share , a year earlier . revenue increased 20 % to $ 246.6 million from $ 204.8 million .