beauty takes backseat to safety on bridges everyone agrees that most of the nation 's old bridges need to be repaired or replaced . but there 's disagreement over how to do it . highway officials insist 0 the ornamental railings on older bridges are n't strong enough to prevent vehicles from crashing through . but other people do n't want to lose the bridges ' beautiful , sometimes historic , features . `` the primary purpose of a railing is to contain a vehicle and not to provide a scenic view , '' says jack white , a planner with the indiana highway department . he and others prefer to install railings such as the `` type f safety shape , '' a four-foot-high concrete slab with no openings . in richmond , ind. , the type f railing is being used to replace arched openings on the g street bridge . garret boone , who teaches art at earlham college , calls the new structure `` just an ugly bridge '' and one that blocks the view of a new park below . in hartford , conn. , the charter oak bridge will soon be replaced , the cast-iron medallions from its railings relegated to a park . compromises are possible . citizens in peninsula , ohio , upset over changes to a bridge , negotiated a deal : the bottom half of the railing will be type f , while the top half will have the old bridge 's floral pattern . similarly , highway engineers agreed to keep the old railings on the key bridge in washington , d.c. , as long as they could install a crash barrier between the sidewalk and the road . tray bon ? drink carrier competes with cartons porting potables just got easier , or so claims scypher corp. , the maker of the cup-tote . the chicago company 's beverage carrier , meant to replace cardboard trays at concession stands and fast-food outlets , resembles the plastic loops used on six-packs of beer , only the loops hang from a web of strings . the new carrier can tote as many as four cups at once . inventor claire marvin says 0 his design virtually eliminates spilling . lids are n't even needed . he also claims 0 the carrier costs less and takes up less space than most paper carriers . a few fast-food outlets are giving it a try . the company acknowledges some problems . a driver has to find something 0 to hang the carrier on , so the company supplies a window hook . while it breaks down in prolonged sunlight , it is n't recyclable . and unlike some trays , there 's no place for food . spirit of perestroika touches design world an exchange of u.s. and soviet designers promises change on both sides . an exhibition of american design and architecture opened in september in moscow and will travel to eight other soviet cities . the show runs the gamut , from a blender to chairs to a model of the citicorp building . the event continues into next year and includes an exchange program to swap design teachers at carnegie-mellon and leningrad 's mutchin institute . dan droz , leader of the carnegie-mellon group , sees benefits all around . the soviets , who normally have few clients other than the state , will get `` exposure to a market system , '' he says 0 . americans will learn more about making products for the soviets . mr. droz says 0 the soviets could even help u.s. designers renew their sense of purpose . `` in moscow , they kept asking us things like , ` why do you make 15 different corkscrews , when all 0 you need is one good one ? ' '' he says . `` they got us thinking 0 maybe we should be helping u.s. companies improve existing products rather than always developing new ones . '' seed for jail solution fails to take root it 's a two birds with one stone deal : eggers group architects propose using grain elevators to house prisoners . it would ease jail overcrowding while preserving historic structures , the company says 0 . but new york state , which is seeking solutions to its prison cell shortage , says `` no . '' grain elevators built in the 1920s and '30s have six-inch concrete walls and a tubular shape that would easily contain semicircular cells with a control point in the middle , the new york firm says 0 . many are far enough from residential areas to pass public muster , yet close enough to permit family visits . besides , eggers says 0 , grain elevators are worth preserving for aesthetic reasons -- one famed architect compared them to the pyramids of egypt . a number of cities -- including minneapolis , philadelphia and houston -- have vacant grain elevators , eggers says 0 . a medium-sized one in brooklyn , it says 0 , could be altered to house up to 1,000 inmates at a lower cost than building a new prison in upstate new york . a spokesman for the state , however , calls the idea `` not effective or cost efficient .