remember those bulky , thick-walled refrigerators of 30 years ago ? they , or at least something less efficient than today 's thin-walled units , may soon be making a comeback . that something , whatever it is , could add as much as $ 100 to the $ 600 or so 0 consumers now pay for lower-priced refrigerators . these and other expensive changes in products ranging from auto air conditioners to foam cushioning to commercial solvents are in prospect because of something called the montreal protocol , signed by 24 nations in 1987 . in one of the most sweeping environmental regulatory efforts to date -- involving products with an annual value of $ 135 billion in the u.s. alone -- the signatories agreed to curtail sharply the use of chlorofluorocarbons -lrb- cfcs -rrb- . world-wide production would be cut in half by 1998 . the u.s. senate liked the treaty so well 0 it ratified it by a vote of 89 to 0 . not to be outdone , george bush wants cfcs banished altogether by the year 2000 , a goal endorsed at an 80-nation u.n. environmental meeting in helsinki in the spring . that 's a lot of banishment , as it turns out . cfcs are the primary ingredient in a gas , often referred to by the du pont trade name freon , which is compressed to liquid form to serve as the cooling agent in refrigeration and air-conditioning equipment . gases containing cfcs are pumped into polyurethane to make the foam used in pillows , upholstery and insulation . polyurethane foam is a highly efficient insulator , which accounts for why the walls of refrigerators and freezers can be thinner now than they were back in the days when they were insulated with glass fiber . but even though by some estimates it might cost the world as much as $ 100 billion between now and the year 2000 to convert to other coolants , foaming agents and solvents and to redesign equipment for these less efficient substitutes , the montreal protocol 's legions of supporters say 0 it is worth it . they insist that cfcs are damaging the earth 's stratospheric ozone layer , which screens out some of the sun 's ultraviolet rays . hence , as they see it , if something is n't done earthlings will become ever more subject to sunburn and skin cancer . peter teagan , a specialist in heat transfer , is running a project at arthur d. little inc. , of cambridge , mass. , 0 to find alternative technologies that will allow industry to eliminate cfcs . in addition to his interest in ozone depletion he has extensively studied the related topic of global warming , a theory that mankind 's generation of carbon dioxide through increased combustion of fossil fuels is creating a `` greenhouse effect '' that will work important climatic changes in the earth 's atmosphere over time . `` i would be the first 0 to admit that there is not a complete consensus in the scientific community on either one of these problems , '' says mr. teagan . `` in the kind of literature 0 i read i come across countervailing opinions quite frequently . but the nature of the problem is such that many others feel 0 it has to be addressed soon , before all the evidence is in . we ca n't afford to wait . '' but does it have to be so soon ? some atmospheric scientists think that even if cfcs were released into the atmosphere at an accelerating rate , the amount of ozone depletion would be only 10 % by the middle of the next century . it 's easy to get something comparable by simply moving to a higher altitude in the u.s. . moreover , there are questions , particularly among atmospheric scientists who know this subject best , about the ability of anyone to know what in fact is happening to the ozone layer . it is generally agreed that when cfcs rise from earth to stratosphere , the chlorine in them is capable of interfering with the process through which ultraviolet rays split oxygen molecules and form ozone . but ozone creation is a very large-scale natural process and the importance of human-generated cfcs in reducing it is largely a matter of conjecture . the ozone layer is constantly in motion and thus very hard to measure . what scientists have known since the late 1970s is that there is a hole in the layer over antarctica that expands or contracts from year to year . but it is at least worthy of some note that there are very few refrigerators in antarctica . moreover , surely someone has noticed that household refrigerators are closed systems , running for many years without either the cfc gas or the insulation ever escaping . another argument of the environmentalists is that if substitutes are available , why not use them ? mr. teagan cites a list of substitutes but none , so far , match the nonflammable , nontoxic cfcs . butane and propane can be used as coolants , for example , but are flammable . moreover , new lubricants will be needed to protect compressors from the new formulations , which , as with cfcs , are solvents . mr. teagan points out as well that if the equipment designed to get along without cfcs is less efficient than current devices , energy consumption will rise and that will worsen the greenhouse effect . folks in the midwest who just suffered a mid-october snowstorm may wonder where the greenhouse was when they needed it , but let 's not be flippant about grave risks . as it happens , arthur d. little is not at all interested in throwing cold water on ozone depletion and global warming theories . it is interested in making some money advising industry on how to convert to a world without cfcs . there is , after all , big money in environmentalism . maybe we should ask why it was that du pont so quickly capitulated and issued a statement , giving it wide publicity , that it was withdrawing cfcs . freon , introduced in 1930 , revolutionized america by making refrigeration and air conditioning practical after all . one answer is that big companies are growing weary of fighting environmental movements and are trying instead to cash in on them , although they never care to put it quite that way . du pont , as it happens , has a potential substitute for cfcs . imperial chemical industries of the u.k. also has one , and is building a plant in louisiana 0 to produce it . japanese chemical companies are at work developing their own substitutes and hoping to conquer new markets , of course . there are still others who do n't mind seeing new crises arise . environmental groups would soon go out of business were they not able to send out mailings describing the latest threat and asking for money 0 to fight it . university professors and consultants with scientific credentials saw a huge market for their services evaporate when price decontrol destroyed the energy crisis and thus the demand for `` alternative energy . '' they needed new crises to generate new grants and contracts . in other words , environmentalism has created a whole set of vested interests that fare better when there are many problems than when there are few . that tends to tilt the public debate toward `` solutions '' even when some of the most knowledgeable scientists are skeptical about the seriousness of the threats and the insistence of urgency . there is an element of make-work involved . consumers pay the bill for all this in the price of a refrigerator or an air-conditioned car . if they were really getting insurance against environmental disaster , the price would be cheap . but if there is no impending threat , it can get to be very expensive .