japan has climbed up from the ashes of world war ii and a gross national product of about $ 800 per capita to reach the heavyweight class among industrialized nations . now this remarkable economic growth seems to be coming to an end because the government has not converted itself into a modern , democratic , `` developed nation '' mode of operation . until 1980 , when japan joined the $ 10,000 per capita gnp club of the advanced countries , it was a model developing nation . the government built ports , bridges , highways , schools , hospitals and railways . when industries were weak , it protected them . it gave the japanese people a value system , based on the rationalization that given the country 's lack of natural resources , they must work hard to create value through exports and buy food with the surplus . individual prosperity inevitably would result . that system has worked . the standard of living has increased steadily over the past 40 years ; more than 90 % of the people consider themselves middle class . the people have given their leading and only credible political party , the liberal democratic party , clear and uninterrupted power for those 40 years . the ldp won by a landslide in the last election , in july 1986 . but less than two years later , the ldp started to crumble , and dissent rose to unprecedented heights . the symptoms all point to one thing : japan does not have a modern government . its government still wants to sit in the driver 's seat , set the speed , step on the gas , apply the brakes and steer , with 120 million people in the back seat . in a modern system , the government 's role is to give the people as much choice as possible and to keep them well informed so they are capable of making a choice . it also allows people to buy the best and the cheapest goods from anywhere in the world . the japanese government does n't allow this . the ministry of agriculture and fishery actually is a ministry for farmers and fishermen instead of a ministry of provisions . the ministry of health and welfare is a ministry of doctors and pharmaceutical companies rather than an organization dedicated to protecting the health of the people . the ministry of education is nothing but a cartel for licensed teachers , and certainly does not act on behalf of students . the ministry of construction spreads concrete throughout the country and boasts in international conferences that japan 's paved roadway per capita is the longest in the world , but they seldom think of the poor commuters who spend so much time sitting in traffic . the ministry of transportation serves the industry , certainly not the passengers who must pay extraordinarily high prices . and the ministry of foreign affairs works for itself , supporting japanese diplomats who sprinkle abundant aid money around the world to ensure that their seat at the dinner table is next to the host 's . this ministry has done nothing 0 to correct the misunderstandings and misperceptions that are at the root of japan 's deteriorating image . instead , it seems to be using foreign pressure and even the trade conflict to expand its sphere of influence vis a vis other ministries . all this illustrates that japanese ministries still have a `` provider '' mentality ; they do not serve the people , and particularly not consumers . they serve the industries and the special-interest groups . the rest of the world accepted such methods when japan was developing . japanese put up with it because the government provided job stability and growing paychecks . japan is not a political country . it is a bureaucratic country . the diet plays a minor role compared with the powerful bureaucratic system . most bills are drafted by bureaucrats , not politicians . the diet does n't normally even debate bills because the opposition parties are so often opposed to whatever ldp does that it would be a waste of time . so most bills are passed without full discussion ; particularly difficult bills are passed in the absence of the opposition parties . a recent example is the 3 % consumption tax on all commercial activities . this makes enormous sense in japan , where direct tax accounts for more than 70 % of revenues and the capture rate of direct tax is so unfair . if you are a salaried man , amen ! 100 % captured . if you are a retailer , 50 % , and a farmer , 30 % . to correct this inequality , most people would have favored an indirect tax , like the consumption tax . but the bill was passed without debate in the diet , in the absence of the opposition . as a result , the japanese people did n't know what to expect when the new law was introduced on april 1 . they were frustrated by the longer queues at the cashier and the small coins given as change . all of a sudden , prices were no longer in denominations of 100 or 200 . they were 103 or 206 . pockets exploded with one-yen coins . while people were jingling their change , the ldp politicians were caught in scandals . money , such as in recruit 's political donations , and women , as in the cases of prime minister sosuke uno and secretary general tokuo yamashita , seldom have caused political scandals in japan . whereas most men were a bit ambivalent about the sex scandals -lrb- though they were furious about recruit -rrb- , women were upset about both and surged to the polls . in the recent upper house and tokyo metropolitan congressional elections , in which the socialist party won a runaway victory , 60 % of all women voted , as opposed to the usual 40 % . it is difficult to analyze how much of their anger was due to recruit , the sex scandals , or the one-yen coins in their purses , but they obviously were voting to punish the ldp . taken by surprise , the socialist party is busy changing its doctrines . it 's now ok to deal with the u.s. , but not the soviet union . nuclear power plants are acceptable . the u.s.-japan security treaty can continue , sort of . and so on . against the rapid cosmetic overhaul of the socialist party the ldp has been paralyzed . now is the time 0 to reform the government from a provider , developing-country vanguard role to that of a modern , industrialized nation in which consumers have the ultimate choice . if the ldp , as currently composed , ca n't make the transformation , then it should split into two parties . one party could stand for consumer interests , small government , free trade and globalism to put japan clearly among the most developed and open countries . the other party could continue on the traditional track of the ldp , representing the manufacturers ' preference for larger government , control , regulation and protectionism . the ldp must make a decision immediately ; lower house elections must take place before june . in the current mood of the japanese people , journalists and even some industrialists , giving power to the socialists might be good for the ldp , cleansing it of past sins . we must not forget , however , that such a humble political experiment could cause a global tidal wave of shocks in real-estate and financial markets . at the most there is only nine months before the ldp fuse burns out . mr. ohmae is managing director of mckinsey & co. in japan .