shareholders of nuovo banco ambrosiano s.p.a. voted to accept a bid of 5,500 lire -lrb- $ 4.03 -rrb- a share by france 's credit agricole for 13.32 % of the bank , rejecting an earlier , equal offer by italy 's assicurazioni generali s.p.a . the move will give nuovo banco a badly needed foreign presence , and make credit agricole the bank 's largest shareholder . it also opens a rift in the bank 's shareholders ' syndicate that could lead to a battle for control of the concern . nuovo banco will become italy 's biggest private-sector bank when it completes its scheduled merger with banca cattolica del venetoen by year end . credit agricole asked a milan court to sequester the nuovo banco shares , the italian news agency ansa reported 0 . the tribunal is scheduled to rule on the request friday . no reason for the request was given . credit agricole officials could n't be immediately reached for comment . the decision to accept credit agricole 's bid , valued at 283.3 billion lire -lrb- $ 207.4 million -rrb- , came after a stormy weekend meeting . nuovo banco 's second largest shareholder , the fiat s.p.a.-controlled investment concern , gemina s.p.a. , fought to have generali 's offer approved . gemina , which owns 13.26 % of nuovo banco , abstained in the final vote on credit agricole , which was nonetheless approved by a majority of shareholders . the linkup with credit agricole will give nuovo banco its first foreign presence since it was formed from the wreck of the old banco ambrosiano , which collapsed amid scandal after the death of chairman roberto calvi in 1982 . since then , the bank has strengthened its italian network , and has posted strong results . `` the shareholders felt 0 we needed a foreign presence more than we needed links with an insurance company , '' an ambrosiano spokeswoman said . gemina said in a statement that `` it reserves the right to take any action to protect its rights as a member of the syndicate . '' a company spokeswoman said 0 the company had n't decided what measures to take , but did n't rule out legal action . generali , italy 's biggest insurer , last month offered 5,500 lire a share for the nuovo banco stake held by banco popolare di milano , the bank 's largest shareholder , which announced plans to sell the holdings earlier this year . a generali spokesman declined to comment on nuovo banco 's rejection of the insurer 's offer . on the milan stock exchange , nuovo banco 's shares jumped to 4,830 lire each from 4,695 lire friday .