for vietnamese , these are tricky , often treacherous , times . after years of hesitation , economic and political reform was embraced at the end of 1986 , but ringing declarations have yet to be translated into much action . vietnam is finding that turning a stagnant socialist order into a dynamic free market does n't come easy . here is how three vietnamese are coping with change : the tire king nguyen van chan is living proof that old ways die hard . mr. chan used to be an oddity in hanoi : a private entrepreneur . his business success made him an official target in pre-reform days . mr. chan , now 64 years old , invented a fountain pen 0 he and his family produced from plastic waste . later , he marketed glue . both products were immensely popular . for his troubles , mr. chan was jailed three times between 1960 and 1974 . though his operation was registered and used only scrap , he was accused of conducting illegal business and possessing illegal materials . once he was held for three months without being charged . things were supposed to change when vietnam 's economic reforms gathered pace , and for awhile they did . after years of experimenting , mr. chan produced a heavy-duty bicycle tire that outlasted its state-produced rival . by 1982 , he was selling thousands of tires . newspapers published articles about him , and he was hailed as `` the tire king . '' his efforts earned a gold medal at a national exhibition -- and attracted renewed attention from local authorities . district police in 1983 descended on his suburban home , which he and his large family used as both residence and factory , and demanded proof 0 the house and equipment were his . he produced it . `` that was the first time 0 they lost and i won , '' he says . he was further questioned to determine if he was `` a real working man or an exploiter . '' says mr. chan : `` when i showed 0 it was from my own brain , they lost for the second time . '' but a few days later the police accused him of stealing electricity , acquiring rubber without permission and buying stolen property . warned 0 he was to be jailed again , he fled to the countryside . his family was given three hours 0 to leave before the house and contents were confiscated . with only the clothes 0 they were wearing , family members moved to a home owned by one of mr. chan 's sons . after six months on the run , mr. chan learned 0 the order for his arrest had been canceled . he rejoined his family in january 1984 and began the long struggle for justice , pressing everyone from hanoi municipal officials to national assembly deputies for restoration of his rights . he and his family kept afloat by repairing bicycles , selling fruit and doing odd jobs . mr. chan achieved a breakthrough in 1987 -- and became a minor celebrity again -- when his story was published in a weekly newspaper . in 1988 , 18 months after the sixth congress formally endorsed family-run private enterprise , district authorities allowed mr. chan to resume work . by late last year he was invited back as `` the tire king '' to display his products at a national exhibition . national leaders stopped by his stand to commend his achievements . mr. chan now produces 1,000 bicycle and motorbike tires a month and 1,000 tins of tire-patching glue in the son 's small house . eighteen people pack the house 's two rooms -- the chans , four of their 10 children with spouses , and eight of 22 grandchildren . most sleep on the floor . come daybreak , eight family members and two other workers unroll a sheet of raw rubber that covers the floor of the house and spills out onto the street . the primitive operations also burst out the back door into a small courtyard , where an ancient press squeezes rubber solution into a flat strip and newly made tires are cooled in a bathtub filled with water . mr. chan talks optimistically of expanding , maybe even moving into the import-export field . first , however , he has unfinished business . when district authorities allowed him to resume manufacturing , they released only one of his machines . they did n't return the rubber stocks that represent his capital . nor did they return his house and contents , which he values at about $ 44,000 . he wants to recover more than just his property , though . `` i want my dignity back , '' he says . the editor nguyen ngoc seemed an obvious choice when the vietnamese writers association was looking for a new editor 0 to reform its weekly newspaper , van nghe . after the sixth congress , journalists seized the opportunity provided by the liberalization to probe previously taboo subjects . mr. ngoc , 57 years old , had solid reformist credentials : he had lost his official position in the association in he early 1980s because he questioned the intrusion of politics into literature . appointed editor in chief in july 1987 , mr. ngoc rapidly turned the staid van nghe into vietnam 's hottest paper . circulation soared as the weekly went way beyond standard literary themes to cover vietnamese society and its ills . readers were electrified by the paper 's audacity and appalled by the dark side of life 0 it uncovered . one article recounted a decade-long struggle by a wounded soldier to prove , officially , 0 he was alive . another described how tax-collection officials in thanh hoa province one night stormed through homes and confiscated rice from starving villagers . the newspaper also ran a series of controversial short stories by nguyen huy thiep , a former history teacher , who stirred debate over his interpretation of vietnamese culture and took a thinly veiled swipe at writers who had blocked his entry into their official association . van nghe quickly made influential enemies . `` those who manage ideology and a large number of writers reacted badly '' to the restyled paper , says 0 lai nguyen an , a literary critic . after months of internal rumblings , mr. ngoc was fired last december . his dismissal triggered a furor among intellectuals that continues today . `` under mr. ngoc , van nghe protected the people instead of the government , '' says nguyen duy , a poet who is the paper 's bureau chief for southern vietnam . `` the paper reflected the truth . for the leadership , that was too painful 0 to bear . '' the ` billionaire ' nguyen thi thi is vietnam 's entrepreneur of the 1980s . her challenge is to keep her fledgling empire on top in the 1990s . mrs. thi did n't wait for the reforms to get her start . she charged ahead of the government and the law to establish hochiminh city food co. as the biggest rice dealer in the country . her success , which included alleviating an urban food shortage in the early 1980s , helped persuade hanoi to take the reform path . her story is becoming part of local folklore . a lifelong revolutionary with little education who fought both the french and the u.s.-backed saigon regime , she switched effortlessly to commerce after the war . her instincts were capitalistic , despite her background . as she rode over regulations , only her friendship with party leaders , including nguyen van linh , then ho chi minh city party secretary , kept her out of jail . following mr. linh 's appointment as secretary-general of the party at the sixth congress , mrs. thi has become the darling of `` doi moi '' , the vietnamese version of perestroika . the authorities have steered foreign reporters to her office to see an example of `` the new way of thinking . '' foreign publications have responded with articles declaring her vietnam 's richest woman . `` some people call me the communist billionaire , '' she has told visitors . actually , 67-year-old mrs. thi is about as poor as almost everyone else in this impoverished land . she has indeed turned hochiminh city food into a budding conglomerate , but the company itself remains state-owned . she manages it with the title of general-director . the heart of the business is the purchase of rice and other commodities , such as corn and coffee , from farmers in the south , paying with fertilizer , farm tools and other items . last year , hochiminh city food says 0 it bought two million metric tons of unhusked rice , more than 10 % of the country 's output . the company operates a fleet of trucks and boats 0 to transport the commodities to its warehouses . a subsidiary company processes commodities into foods such as instant noodles that are sold with the rice through a vast retail network . in recent years , mrs. thi has started to diversify the company , taking a 20 % stake in newly established , partly private industrial and commercial bank , and setting up saigon petro , which owns and operates vietnam 's first oil refinery . mrs. thi says 0 hochiminh city food last year increased pretax profit 60 % to the equivalent of about $ 2.7 million on sales of $ 150 million . she expects both revenue and profit to gain this year . she is almost cavalier about the possibility 0 vietnam 's reforms will create rivals on her home turf . `` i do n't mind the competition inside the country , '' she says . `` i am only afraid that with vietnam 's poor-quality products we ca n't compete with neighboring countries .