assuming 0 the stock market does n't crash again and completely discredit yuppies and trading rooms , american television audiences in a few months may be seeing britain 's concept of both . `` capital city '' is a weekly series that premiered here three weeks ago amid unprecedented hype by its producer , thames television . the early episodes make you long for a rerun of the crash of 1987 . let 's make that 1929 , just to be sure . according to the program 's publicity prospectus , `` capital city , '' set at shane longman , a fictional mid-sized securities firm with # 500 million capital , `` follows the fortunes of a close-knit team of young , high-flying dealers , hired for their particular blend of style , genius and energy . but with all the money and glamour of high finance come the relentless pressures to do well ; pressure to pull off another million before lunch ; pressure to anticipate the market by a fraction of a second ... '' you need n't be a high-powered securities lawyer to realize 0 the prospectus is guilty of less than full disclosure . the slickly produced series has been criticized by london 's financial cognoscenti as inaccurate in detail , but its major weakness is its unrealistic depiction of the characters ' professional and private lives . turned loose in shane longman 's trading room , the yuppie dealers do little right . judging by the money lost and mistakes made in the early episodes , shane longman 's capital should be just about exhausted by the final 13th week . in the opening episode we learn that michelle , a junior bond trader , has indeed pulled off another million before lunch . trouble is , 0 she has lost it just as quickly . rather than keep the loss a secret from the outside world , michelle blabs about it to a sandwich man while ordering lunch over the phone . little chance that shane longman is going to recoup today . traders spend the morning frantically selling bonds , in the belief that the u.s. monthly trade figures will look lousy . ah , perfidious columbia ! the trade figures turn out well , and all those recently unloaded bonds spurt in price . so much for anticipating the market by a fraction of a second . and a large slice of the first episode is devoted to efforts to get rid of some nearly worthless japanese bonds -lrb- since when is anything japanese nearly worthless nowadays ? -rrb- . surprisingly , shane longman survives the week , only to have a senior executive innocently bumble his way into becoming the target of a criminal insider trading investigation . instead of closing ranks to protect the firm 's reputation , the executive 's internal rivals , led by a loutish american , demand his resignation . the plot is thwarted when the firm 's major stockholder , kelp farming on the other side of the globe , hurries home to support the executive . but the investigation continues . if you can swallow the premise that the rewards for such ineptitude are six-figure salaries , you still are left puzzled , because few of the yuppies consume very conspicuously . in fact , few consume much of anything . two share a house almost devoid of furniture . michelle lives in a hotel room , and although she drives a canary-colored porsche , she has n't time 0 to clean or repair it ; the beat-up vehicle can be started only with a huge pair of pliers because the ignition key has broken off in the lock . and it takes declan , the obligatory ladies ' man of the cast , until the third episode to get past first base with any of his prey . perhaps the explanation for these anomalies is that class-conscious britain is n't ready to come to terms with the wealth created by the thatcherian free-enterprise regime . after all , this is n't old money , but new money , and in many cases , young money . this attitude is clearly illustrated in the treatment of max , the trading room 's most flamboyant character . yuppily enough , he lives in a lavishly furnished converted church , wears designer clothes and drives an antique car . but apparently to make him palatable , even lovable , to the masses , the script inflates pony-tailed max into an eccentric genius , master of 11 chinese dialects . he takes his wash to the laundromat , where he meets a punky french girl who dupes him into providing a home for her pet piranha and then promptly steals his car and dumps it in dieppe . in producing and promoting `` capital city , '' thames has spent about as much as shane longman loses on a good day . the production costs are a not inconsiderable # 8 million -lrb- $ 12.4 million -rrb- , and would have been much higher had not the cost of the trading floor set been absorbed in the budget of `` dealers , '' an earlier made-for-tv movie . another half million quid went for a volley of full-page advertisements in six major british newspapers and for huge posters in the london subway . these expenses create a special incentive for `` capital city 's '' producers to flog it , or a yank-oriented version of it , in america . thames 's u.s. marketing agent , donald taffner , is preparing to do just that . he is discreetly hopeful , citing three u.s. comedy series -- `` three 's company , '' `` too close for comfort '' and `` check it out '' -- that had british antecedents . perhaps without realizing it , mr. taffner simultaneously has put his finger on the problem and an ideal solution : `` capital city '' should have been a comedy , a worthy sequel to the screwball british `` carry on '' movies of the 1960s . the seeds already are in the script . the first episode concluded with a marvelously cute scene in which the trading-room crew minded a baby , the casualty of a broken marriage at the firm . and many in the young cast bear striking resemblances to american tv and movie personalities known for light roles . joanna kanska looks like a young zsa zsa gabor ; william armstrong , who plays max , could pass for hans conreid , and douglas hodge -lrb- declan -rrb- for james farentino ; rolf saxon is a passable tommy noonan and dorian healy could easily double for huntz hall , the blank-faced foil of the bowery boys comedies . so , ok kids , everybody on stage for `` carry on trading '' : the cast is frantically searching the office for misplaced japanese bonds that suddenly have soared in value because dai-ichi kangyo bank has just bought the white house . the pressure is too much for zsa zsa , who slaps a security guard . he backflips into a desktop computer terminal , which explodes , covering huntz hall 's face with microchips . and all the while , the bonds are in the baby 's diaper . it should run forever . mr. rustin is senior correspondent in the journal 's london bureau .