southern co. 's gulf power co. subsidiary pleaded guilty to two felony charges of conspiracy to make illegal political contributions and tax evasion , and paid $ 500,000 in fines . gulf power 's guilty plea before u.s. district judge robert l. vining yesterday marks the end of only one part of a wide-ranging inquiry of southern co . the company is the subject of a federal grand jury investigation into whether its officials and its utility subsidiaries conspired to cover up their accounting for spare parts to evade federal income taxes . `` the terms announced today are strictly between the united states and gulf power , '' said u.s. attorney robert l. barr . `` this is only a further step in a lengthy investigation . '' the plea settlement does not allow southern co. to charge any of the $ 500,000 to its customers , or take action against employees who provided information during the federal inquiry . gulf power had been under investigation for violating the utility holding company act , which prohibits public utilities from making political contributions . in a statement , southern co. president edward l. addison said , `` we believe 0 our decision to plead -lrb- guilty -rrb- to these charges is responsible and proper . and our action today will allow gulf power to avoid prolonged , distracting legal proceedings . '' he did not say what effect , if any , the $ 500,000 fine would have on the company 's earnings . mr. barr said 0 yesterday 's plea by gulf power , which came after months of negotiations , was based on evidence that gulf power had set up an elaborate payment system through which it reimbursed outside vendors -- primarily three florida advertising agencies -- for making illegal political contributions on its behalf . the appleyard agency , for example , allegedly made contributions from 1982 to 1984 to various funds for political candidates , then submitted bills to gulf power . the contributions were funded by monthly payments of $ 1,000 to $ 2,000 to appleyard in the guise of a `` special production fee '' -- in effect , hiding the nature of the payments from the internal revenue service , federal prosecutors said 0 . the government also indicated that former gulf power senior vice president jacob f. `` jake '' horton was the mastermind behind the use of the ad agencies -- appleyard , dick leonard group ii inc. and hemmer & yates corp. -- to make payments to various political candidates from 1981 to 1988 . mr. horton , who oversaw gulf power 's governmental-affairs efforts , died mysteriously in a plane crash in april after learning 0 he might be fired following the uncovering of irregularities in a company audit . government officials declined to say whether the investigation includes the ad agencies or the politicians involved . in new york stock exchange trading , southern co. rose 50 cents a share to $ 27.125 .