yields on savings-type certificates of deposit dropped slightly in the week ended yesterday . the average yield on a six-month cd of $ 50,000 or less was 7.90 % , compared with 7.94 % a week earlier . the average one-year savings-type cd was down to 7.99 % from 8.01 % , according to banxquote money markets , a new york information service that tracks cd yields . `` this week was uneventful for the cd market , '' said norberto mehl , chairman of banxquote . `` the major banks have n't even reacted to sharp rises in the three-month treasury bill rates '' in the past two weeks . banks that adjusted payouts on cds in the most recent week made only fractional moves , he said 0 . the cd trend runs counter to the direction of short-term interest rates at the treasury bill auction monday . the average six-month bill was sold with a yield of 8.04 % , up from 7.90 % . the average three-month issue rose to 8.05 % from 7.77 % . typically , banks offer cd yields higher than those on treasury bills , which are considered the safest short-term investments ; banks need a competitive edge to sell their products . but when market interest rates move up rapidly , increases in bank cd yields sometimes lag . most yields on short-term jumbo cds , those with denominations over $ 90,000 , also moved in the opposite direction of treasury bill yields . the average six-month yield on a jumbo cd was at 7.90 % , down from 7.93 % , banxquote said 0 . for longer-term cds , yields were up . the average two-year and five-year jumbos were up 0.02 of a percentage point to 7.91 % and 7.96 % , respectively . however , cds sold through major broker-dealer networks were up slightly almost across the board . the average six-month cd in that category added 0.05 percentage point to 8.35 % , for example . mr. mehl attributed the rise specifically to the treasury bill increase . among the major banks surveyed by banxquote in six regions of the country , 8.33 % is the highest yield available . it is offered by the flagship banks of new york 's manufacturers hanover corp. in the one-year maturity only . the yield is offered across a range of maturities at san francisco 's bankamerica corp. and wells fargo & co . just two weeks ago , bankamerica 's yields in many of those maturities was 8.61 % . still , on average , the major california banks have the highest yields on cds , according to banxquote . the average yield there on six-month issues is 8.32 % .