a unified europe poses labor problems and prospects for u.s. firms . the `` social dimension '' -- worker concerns -- of the european community 's plan to open its internal borders in 1992 could set the effort `` off the rails '' if not done reasonably , says 0 general electric senior vice president frank doyle . u.s. companies wanting to expand in europe face `` tough pressure '' from unions in nations such as west germany , which play a big consulting role in management decisions , he says 0 . fmc corp. and baxter international say 0 unions also wo n't like plant relocations and needed restructuring , which means layoffs . many employers have already begun moving to southern countries such as spain and italy , where wages are low and unions are weaker ; demand for trained labor and managers will rise there , fmc says 0 . pfizer , fluor and ge see big `` ec 92 '' pluses : a push for job training and ease in moving and finding workers . clubbing a fan was n't the baltimore orioles ' fault . so said a federal judge , in a case involving two players for the minor league bluefield , va. , orioles , a baltimore farm team . the players were heckled by a patron during a july 4 , 1988 , game with the martinsville phillies . like its parent that year , `` bluefield was not having a good year , '' the judge said 0 . after the game -lrb- `` bluefield lost , 9-8 , stranding three runners in ... the ninth , '' he noted -rrb- , trouble began . more taunting in the parking lot , the players said 0 , led to a fight . the fan said 0 he was punched and kicked by one player and that the other broke his jaw with a baseball bat . the judge dismissed the fan 's suit against the team , however , ruling the orioles innocent of negligent hiring , and not responsible for a fight that was outside the players ' employment . proposals arise for coping with the shortage of nurses . an association of academic health centers report urges freeing nurses from duties that do n't require special skills . it also recommends better retirement and day-care benefits , and basing pay on education , experience and nurses ' demanding work schedules . but it opposes an american medical association proposal for creating a `` registered care technologist , '' as `` potentially divisive '' ; it says 0 the job would entail an unwanted new doctor 's `` bedside '' extension . over a third of 618 hospitals surveyed by consultant hewitt associates use a `` clinical ladder , '' basing advancement on performance and education . many also use recruiting bonuses , tuition reimbursement , loan repayment or child-care help . some give lump-sum incentives . mra staffing systems signs up nurses for paid travel , promising annual income up to $ 50,000 and free or subsidized housing . treating employees with respect is crucial for managers , says 0 consultant hay group after surveys of a million workers . it 's in their top five `` work values . '' fully 80 % of employees who say 0 their bosses treat them with respect , but only a third of those who do n't feel respected say 0 they 're satisfied with where they work . sprucing up the digs : about 200 employees of the maryland department of economic and employment development for four months painted walls , polished and carpeted floors , bought plants , cleaned windows and blinds , and hung pictures at the agency 's baltimore office . the 3,000 hours of work will save the state $ 55,000 . curbing wage boosts will get high priority again in 1990 collective bargaining , a bureau of national affairs survey of 250 companies with pacts expiring next year indicates 0 . despite labor-shortage warnings , 80 % aim for first-year wage increases of under 4 % ; and 77 % say 0 they 'd try to replace workers , if struck , or would consider it . temporary workers have good educations , the national association of temporary services says 0 ; its survey of 2,508 such employees shows 82 % with more than a high-school education , and 31 % with college degrees . about 12 % have retired from a full-time job , while 54 % were asked to stay on full time . home-sale losses rise , but they 're often covered by employers . but they search for ways 0 to limit the damage . a third of 439 companies surveyed by the employee relocation council report a rise in 1988 sales losses over 1987 . about 72 % reimburse for all or some losses . since 1984 , more companies give sales-loss aid , as many real-estate values depreciated , the council says 0 . rjr nabisco pays up to $ 30,000 of losses , including improvements . goodrich wo n't ensure loss coverage , but will prevent a `` catastrophic loss '' ; it has given some employees the full purchase price when values fell from concern over dangers posed by a disposal site . federal express , dow chemical , ford and national city corp. will buy the home or let the worker sell to an outside firm , but usually wo n't cover a loss . since 1984 , firms offering prepurchase house appraisals , to deter overpaying , rose to 40 % of those 0 the council polled , from 28 % . the checkoff : the national academy of engineering gives two inventors of the semiconductor microchip a $ 350,000 achievement award ... . now , that 's reactionary : letter carriers union president vincent sombrotto accuses philadelphia postmaster charles james of `` 12th century ... oppressive management tactics .