investors bailed out of new york city bonds in droves last week , driving prices lower and boosting yields . one bond trader estimated that more than $ 50 million of new york city general obligation bonds were put up for sale friday alone . while that represents a small percentage of the city 's public debt outstanding , friday 's selling followed a weeklong effort to unload the bonds by a broad spectrum of institutional and individual investors . `` i 've never seen so many -lcb- new york city -rcb- g.o. 's up for sale , '' said another trader . `` every broker has blocks of every size and maturity . '' municipal bond analysts said 0 the sell-off was triggered by concerns about the city 's financial health , rumors of a $ 900 million bond offering coming soon , and political uncertainty . a spokesman for the city would n't confirm the size of the bond issue , but did say that a general obligation offering is in the works and should be priced sometime in the next two weeks , before the november mayoral election . -lrb- general obligation bonds are backed by the city 's overall revenues and credit . -rrb- although many investors were aware that a bond offering was being scheduled , many expected a much smaller amount of bonds to be sold . the fact that the city will issue such a large amount of debt was interpreted as a sign that new york 's budgetary problems are more serious than had been expected . new york , one of the nation 's largest issuers of tax-exempt bonds , sold $ 750 million of municipal bonds just a few weeks ago . there have been reports for months that the city 's economy is weakening , as the october 1987 stock market crash continues to make itself felt . the recent sharp stock market decline exacerbated those concerns . meanwhile , tax revenues are falling while the city 's spending needs are expanding . rumors persisted last week that new york 's credit ratings -- single-a from moody 's investors service inc. and single-a-minus from standard & poor 's corp. -- are at risk . the weakness in new york city bonds follows a warning from new york state comptroller edward regan that the 1987 crash seriously weakened the city 's economy . in a study , the comptroller said , `` the city 's glory days are over . '' mr. regan warned mayoral candidates `` to be prepared for limited options and constraints on service increases 0 to address the city 's problems in the next few years , due to the now-evident weakening in the new york city economy . '' new york city 's revised financial plan , due out later this month , is expected to include measures 0 to balance the city 's $ 27 billion budget . at present , analysts project a budget gap on the order of $ 500 million to $ 600 million for the fiscal year ending june 30 , 1990 , although the city 's own budget analysts project a narrower deficit . mark page , new york 's deputy director of finance , said that investors ' concerns about the city 's financial health are `` unwarranted given our proven ability to manage ourselves . '' he charges the city 's critics with spreading `` unfounded emotional rhetoric . '' there are also questions about whether a new and inexperienced mayor can manage the city through what could become a financial crisis . the leading contender for the mayoral office , democrat david dinkins , has been criticized recently for the way 0 he handled his personal financial affairs . and the controversy has led to uncertainty about the outcome of the election . until last week , mr. dinkins was considered a shoo-in . `` the market can adjust to good news or bad news , but uncertainty drives people wild , '' said bernard b. beal , chief executive of m.r. beal & co. , a securities firm that specializes in the municipal market . until last week , `` everyone felt certain 0 they knew the outcome of the election . now , there have been a number of questions raised . '' last week , yields on long-term new york city general obligation bonds jumped half a percentage point . new york city 's 6 % bonds due 2018 , for example , were quoted late friday at a price 0 to yield 7.80 % , compared with 7.60 % thursday . as the yield on new york general obligation bonds rose , the bond buyer 20-bond general obligation index , the mostly widely followed gauge of the tax-exempt market , held steady at 7.19 % in the week ended oct. 19 .