an unexpectedly sharp widening in the u.s. trade gap for august dragged the dollar lower tuesday , but profit-taking on short positions helped the currency rebound to close mixed against major counterparts . while the market kept careful tabs on wall street 's gyrations , it shrugged off a modest downturn in equities to bid the dollar well above the day 's lows . soon after the release of the u.s. trade figures , the dollar plunged to an intraday low of 140.95 yen . it also declined against the mark but did n't reach its intraday low of 1.8435 marks until two hours later . the unit stabilized about midday new york time at around 1.85 marks and 141 yen , prompting unconfirmed rumors that the u.s. federal reserve had intervened to blunt the unit 's tumble . the dollar finished at its intraday highs . dealers noted that the foreign exchange market 's initial bearish reaction to the u.s. trade figures was tempered later by a `` calmer reassessment of the data . '' the u.s. commerce department reported a $ 10.77 billion deficit in august , compared with a revised july deficit of $ 8.24 billion . economists had expected a $ 9.1 billion gap . the august figure reflected a 6.4 % rise in imports and a 0.2 % drop in exports . marc m. goloven , an economist with manufacturers hanover trust in new york , said that while the figures appear to indicate a sadly deteriorating u.s. trade performance , there 's still enough positive news in the data to justify buying dollars . he said that while the u.s. trade gap with canada has widened significantly , the trade deficit with western europe and japan continues to narrow . and he added that manufactured goods exports are still rising . the dollar 's near-term path remains foggy , according to currencny analysts , who characterize the market as `` bewildering . '' in late new york trading yesterday , the dollar was quoted at 1.8667 marks , down from 1.8685 marks late monday , and at 142.75 yen , up from 141.85 yen late monday . sterling was unchanged at $ 1.5753 . in tokyo wednesday , the u.s. currency opened for trading at 142.55 yen , unchanged from tuesday 's tokyo close . later , the u.s. currency fell to about 142.25 yen on news reports of the san francisco earthquake . some analysts remain bullish and point out that the dollar continues to be well bid despite key rate increases in europe and japan , several weeks of aggressive dollar sales by the world central banks -- some traders estimate that the barrage of sales topped $ 12 billion -- and a 190-point plunge on the new york stock exchange . they note that the u.s. unit is trading at the upper end of the presumed target zones established by the group of seven trading partners . the g-7 comprises west germany , the u.s. , france , the u.k. , italy , canada and japan . the so-called louvre accord was seen to have set ranges of 1.70 marks to 1.90 marks and 120 yen to 140 yen . they say that the recent injection of liquidity into the u.s. banking system has been modest , and they do n't anticipate significant easing by the u.s. federal reserve . the fed arranged $ 1.5 billion of customer repurchase agreements tuesday , the second repurchase agreement in two days . the move , which injects capital into the system , is seen as an effort to reassure the finanicial markets that the u.s. central bank is ready to provide the ample liquidity . but other analysts contend that while the fed 's move to loosen credit has n't been aggressive , it nevertheless sends a clear signal that , at least for now , the fed has relaxed its grip on credit . they add that the fed has allowed the key federal funds interest rate to dip to about 8 5\/8 % from its levels of just below 9 % last week . the federal funds rate is the overnight lending rate that banks charge each other . market participants said that the mark continues to post the most significant gains against the dollar . on the commodity exchange in new york , gold for current delivery settled at $ 367.40 an ounce , up 10 cents . estimated volume was a moderate 3.5 million ounces . in early trading in hong kong wednesday , gold was at $ 366.55 an ounce .