philip morris cos. is launching a massive corporate advertising campaign that will put the tobacco giant 's name in tv commercials for the first time since the early 1950s , when it stopped advertising its namesake cigarette brand on television . the campaign , a patriotic celebration of the 200th anniversary of the bill of rights , does n't mention cigarettes or smoking ; cigarette ads have been prohibited on television since 1971 . but even before it begins , the campaign is drawing fire from anti-smoking advocates , who criticize philip morris 's attempt to bolster its beleaguered image by wrapping itself in the document that is a cornerstone of american democracy . philip morris , which became the u.s. 's largest food company last year with its $ 12.9 billion acquisition of kraft inc. , seems determined to evolve beyond its roots in marlboro country . the company 's research suggests that its name recognition among most consumers remains unusually low , although its array of brands -- including maxwell house coffee , jell-o , cheez whiz , and miller beer -- blanket supermarket shelves . the company is expected to spend about $ 30 million a year on its two-year corporate campaign , created by wpp group 's ogilvy & mather unit in new york . the initial spots will appear during morning and prime-time news shows . philip morris hopes that by taking its bill of rights theme to the airwaves , in addition to publications , it will reach the broadest possible audience . until now , its corporate ads , mainly promoting its sponsorship of the arts , have appeared almost exclusively in newspapers and magazines . `` most people -- whether in toledo , tucson or topeka -- have n't got a clue who we are , '' says guy l. smith , philip morris 's vice president of corporate affairs . `` if they think well of the company through our support of the bill of rights , it follows 0 they 'll think well of our products . '' mr. smith says 0 the bill of rights commercial , which trumpets the themes of liberty and freedom of expression , is n't designed to have any special appeal for smokers . although philip morris typically tries to defend the rights of smokers with free-choice arguments , `` this has nothing 0 to do with cigarettes , nor will it ever , '' the spokesman says 0 . but some anti-smoking activists disagree , expressing anger at what they see as the company 's attempt to purchase innocence by association . `` i 'm outraged because this company is portraying itself at the heart of american culture and political freedom and in fact it 's a killer , '' says michael pertschuk , former chairman of the federal trade commission and a tobacco-industry critic . `` it should be treated like the medellin -lcb- drug -rcb- mafia , not the founding fathers . '' mr. pertschuk adds that the new commercial dovetails perfectly with major aspects of philip morris 's political strategy . these include trying to protect its print advertising by invoking the first amendment , and wooing blacks by portraying itself as a protector of civil rights . -lrb- the commercial features , among others , the voice of martin luther king jr. , the slain civil rights leader . -rrb- many marketers say 0 philip morris 's approach will be effective , but they agree that the ads ' implied smoking message is unmistakable . `` this is clever , subliminal advertising that really says , ` smokers have rights , too , ' '' says al ries , chairman of trout & ries inc. , a greenwich , conn. , marketing strategy firm . `` this is designed to get the wagons in a circle and defend the smoking franchise . '' richard winger , a partner at boston consulting group , adds : `` it 's very popular to drape yourself in the flag these days . if you can do that and at the same time send a message that supports your business , that 's brilliant . '' rjr nabisco inc. and american brands inc. say 0 they have no plans to follow philip morris 's lead . -lrb- indeed , rjr nabisco is currently under fire for having sent 80-second videotapes touting its now brand to consumers who smoke american brands ' carltons . -rrb- despite the criticism , philip morris 's corporate campaign runs little risk of getting yanked off the tube . `` they are n't showing james madison taking a puff or lighting up , '' says laurence tribe , a professor of constitutional law at harvard university . `` all 0 they are trying to do is borrow some of the legitimacy of the bill of rights itself .