william d. forrester , president of the u.s.-u.s.s.r. trade and economic council , has a warning for u.s. companies trying to do business in the soviet union . `` it 's an extremely complex market , and you have to be prepared to make a big commitment , '' mr. forrester says . `` we are not trying to encourage everyone . '' undeterred by such words of caution , corporate america is flocking to moscow , lured by a huge untapped market and mikhail gorbachev 's attempt to overhaul the soviet economy . doing business with the russians , once the pursuit of a handful of hardened veterans , has become the goal of such major companies as general motors corp. , federal express corp. and procter & gamble co. , as well as a cluster of smaller firms . reflecting the new-found interest , more than 140 u.s. companies are taking part in a moscow exhibition organized by mr. forrester 's trade group . but while u.s. interest may be big and growing , the difficulties that have stymied deals in the past show no sign of abating . alongside the old problems of a non-convertible currency and an inpenetrable bureaucracy , western business executives must now grapple with new complexities linked to perestroika , the restructuring of the soviet economy . executives say 0 mr. gorbachev 's moves to break up the government 's foreign trade monopoly have created uncertainties as well as opportunities . changing legislation has opened the field to thousands of inexperienced soviet players , many who promise more than they can deliver . and some foreign firms are finding that even when they manage to overcome such hurdles , their ventures now have to be endorsed by such unpredictable bodies as the soviet parliament and the governments of the nation 's republics . `` you have to go out to all your constituents , '' says james h. giffen , who is spearheading the most ambitious attempt by u.s. firms to break into the soviet market , involving investment of more than $ 5 billion in some two dozen joint ventures . as part of that attempt , by the american trade consortium , mr. giffen says 0 he spends a lot of time lobbying . growing public fears about the soviet environment is one new factor affecting some joint-venture plans . over the past two years , soviet ministries have been talking to international firms , including occidental petroleum co. and combustion engineering inc. of the u.s. , montedison s.p.a. of italy and several japanese groups , about jointly building and operating several big petrochemical plants . the plans have come under fire from soviet environmentalists , and officials say 0 many are likely to be scaled back or dropped . whatever the difficulties , mr. gorbachev remains committed to increasing foreign trade . for political as well as economic reasons , u.s. companies are at the top of his priorities -- a point 0 he underscored by spending two hours walking around the u.s. trade show last week . talking to a small group of u.s. executives afterwards , mr. gorbachev appeared impatient for a big expansion in u.s.-soviet trade , which now amounts to a meager $ 3 billion annually . the u.s. ranks fourth of countries that have concluded joint ventures , behind west germany , finland and italy . according to several people present at the meeting , mr. gorbachev also supported the idea of concluding several commercial accords with the u.s. , possibly at his next summit meeting with president bush . judging by the crush at the exhibition , deprived soviet consumers are more than ready for u.s. products . hundreds of people lined up every day at the colgate-palmolive co. stand to receive a free tube of toothpaste , a commodity in chronically short supply here . and unruly crowds at rjr nabisco inc. 's booth almost knocked over a glass showcase in the rush to get a free camel cigarette sticker . some u.s. products are filtering into the soviet market under an emergency import program . both colgate and procter & gamble have received big orders for toothpaste , soap and detergents . the american trade consortium says 0 it is planning to ship some $ 500 million of consumer goods , financed by bank credits , in the first few months of next year . but the current soviet purchasing spree may be a one-time affair . the goal of most u.s. firms -- joint ventures -- remains elusive . because the soviet ruble is n't convertible into dollars , marks and other western currencies , companies that hope to set up production facilities here must either export some of the goods to earn hard currency or find soviet goods 0 they can take in a counter-trade transaction . international competition for the few soviet goods that can be sold on world markets is heating up , however . shelley m. zeiger , an entrepreneur from new jersey who buys soviet porcelain and `` matryoshka '' nesting dolls for export to the u.s. , says 0 west german companies already have snapped up much of the production of these items . seeking to overcome the currency problems , mr. giffen 's american trade consortium , which comprises chevron corp. , rjr , johnson & johnson , eastman kodak co. , and archer-daniels-midland co. , has concocted an elaborate scheme 0 to share out dollar earnings , largely from the revenues of a planned chevron oil project . several medical concerns , including pfizer inc. , hewlett-packard co. , colgate and abbott laboratories intend to pursue a similar consortium approach . `` it 's hard to invest capital here on the same basis as investing in other countries , '' says dennis a. sokol , president of medical service partners inc. , who is putting the medical consortium together . some u.s. entrepreneurs operate on a smaller scale . one group seeks to publish a u.s.-soviet medical journal in conjunction with the u.s.s.r. ministry of health . according to richard p. mills , a boston-based official of the u.s. partner , 10,000 copies of the quarterly will be printed in russian from next year . it will be financed by advertisements from u.s. companies and by simultaneous publication of an english-language journal containing details of soviet medical advancements . `` we found a market niche , '' mr. mills boasts . `` it 's truly entrepreneurial .