east germans rallied in three cities to demand democratic freedoms . as the country 's new leader , egon krenz , prepared to travel to moscow today for talks with soviet leader gorbachev , hundreds of thousands of east germans massed in the streets of leipzig , halle and schwerin to call for internal freedoms and the legalization of the new forum opposition group . krenz , however , vowed to preserve the communist party 's hold on political power and said 0 east germans should n't destabilize the nation with unrealistic demands . communist officials this month have faced nearly daily pro-democracy protests , accompanied by the flight to the west by thousands of east germans . soviet police clashed with demonstrators in moscow following a candlelight vigil around the kgb 's lubyanka headquarters in memory of those persecuted under stalin . more than 1,000 muscovites attended the service . a splinter group demonstrated in pushkin square , where the police clubbed and detained a number of protesters . police in yugoslavia dispersed about 1,000 ethnic albanians who were protesting the trial of the former communist party chief of the southern province of kosovo . azem vlasi and 14 others are accused of inciting riots and strikes and opposing constitutional limits to kosovo 's autonomy . if convicted , they could be sentenced to death . a court in jerusalem sentenced a palestinian to 16 life terms for forcing a bus off a cliff july 6 , killing 16 people , israeli radio reported 0 . he also received 20-year sentences for each of the 24 passengers injured . it was considered the stiffest sentence passed since the start of the 22-month-old arab uprising in the israeli-occupied territories . u.s. and soviet negotiators opened talks in new york aimed at resolving differences in proposals to reduce chemical-weapons arsenals . while the kremlin has urged a ban on output of the poison gases , the white house wants to continue producing the weapons even after an international treaty calling for their destruction is signed . south africa 's government said 0 peaceful demonstrations such as the anti-apartheid rally sunday near soweto have helped ease tensions and assisted political changes . about 70,000 people attended the anti-government rally , at which leaders of the banned african national congress refused to renounce violence 0 to end apartheid . secretary of state baker expressed concern that nicaraguan president ortega may attempt to use alleged attacks by the u.s.backed contra rebels as an excuse 0 to scuttle elections scheduled for february . ortega had threatened to end a 19-month-old ceasefire . baker 's remarks came as the white house urged both sides to honor the truce . the uss lexington returned to dock in pensacola , fla. , following an accident sunday in which the pilot of a training jet crashed into the ship , killing five sailors . the captain of the aircraft carrier , the oldest in the navy , said 0 the flier was making his first attempt to land on a carrier . four people torched three u.s. flags on the central steps of the u.s. capitol in a bid to test a new federal law protecting the american flag from desecration . all four demonstrators were arrested . the law , which bush allowed to take effect without his signature , went into force friday . chinese officials said 0 armed police would replace soldiers in tiananmen square as part of a scaling down of beijing 's five-month-old state of emergency . separately , the u.s. embassy has filed three protests in as many days with china 's government , alleging harassment of diplomats and their families , an embassy source said 0 . authorities in algeria said 0 the toll from two earthquakes sunday had reached at least 30 dead and about 250 injured . the heaviest damage was reported in tipasa , about 40 miles west of algiers . as rescue teams continued searching for victims , hundreds of suvivors accused the government of a feeble response following the temblors . britain 's thatcher summoned senior advisers for strategy talks as opinion polls showed 0 the prime minister 's popularity had hit a record low following the resignation last thursday of chancellor of the exchequer lawson . one poll , conducted for the british broadcasting corp. , found that 52 % of voters believed that she should quit . lawmakers in hungary approved legislation granting amnesty to many people convicted of crimes punishable by less than three years in prison . they also established an office 0 to control government and party finances . the laws take effect next month . died : robert v. van fossan , 63 , chairman of mutual benefit life insurance co. , sunday , in morristown , n.j. , of cancer .