lsi logic corp. reported a surprise $ 35.7 million third-quarter net loss , including a special restructuring charge that reflects a continuing industry-wide slowdown in semiconductor demand . in september , the custom-chip maker said 0 excess capacity and lagging billings would result in an estimated $ 2 million to $ 3 million net loss for the third quarter . but company officials said yesterday that they decided to take a $ 43 million pretax charge for the period to cover a restructuring of world-wide manufacturing operations , citing extended weakness in the market as well as a decision to switch to more economical production techniques . `` over the summer months , there has been a slowing in the rate of new orders from the computer sector , our primary market , '' said wilfred j. corrigan , chairman and chief executive officer . `` in addition , recent industry forecasts for 1990 indicate a slow environment , at least until midyear . '' as a result , the company said 0 it decided to phase out its oldest capacity and `` make appropriate reductions '' in operating expenses . the $ 35.7 million net loss equals 86 cents a share . not counting the extraordinary charge , the company said 0 it would have had a net loss of $ 3.1 million , or seven cents a share . a year earlier , it had profit of $ 7.5 million , or 18 cents a share . revenue rose 42 % to $ 133.7 million from $ 94 million . the charge partly reflects a switch from older five-inch to more-efficient six-inch silicon wafers with which to fabricate chips . related to that decision , the company said 0 it was converting its santa clara , calif. , factory to a research and development facility . a spokesman declined to speculate about possible reductions in force . `` this is a company that has invested in capacity additions more aggressively than any other company in the industry and now the industry is growing more slowly and they are suddenly poorly positioned , '' said michael stark , chip analyst at robertson , stephens & co . `` i think 0 the stock is dead money for a while . '' yesterday 's announcement was made after markets closed . u.s. chip makers are facing continued slack demand following a traditionally slow summer . part of the problem is that chip buyers are keeping inventories low because of jitters about the course of the u.s. economy .