general motors corp. and ford motor co. are now going head to head in the markets for shares of jaguar plc , as gm got early clearance from the federal trade commission to boost its stake in the british luxury car maker . gm confirmed friday that it received permission late thursday from u.s. antitrust regulators to increase its jaguar holdings past the $ 15 million level . ford got a similar go-ahead earlier in october , and on friday , jaguar announced that the no. 2 u.s. auto maker had raised its stake to 13.2 % , or 24.2 million shares , from 12.4 % earlier in the week . a spokesman for gm , the no. 1 auto maker , declined to say how many jaguar shares that company owns . in late trading friday , jaguar shares bucked the downward tide in london 's stock market and rose five pence to 725 pence -lrb- $ 11.44 -rrb- . trading volume was a moderately heavy 3.1 million shares . in the u.s. , jaguar 's american depositary receipts were among the most active issues friday in national over-the-counter trading where they closed at $ 11.625 each , up 62.5 cents . analysts expect that the two u.s. auto giants will move quickly to buy up 15 % stakes in jaguar , setting up a potential bidding war for the prestigious jaguar brand . british government restrictions prevent any single shareholder from going beyond 15 % before the end of 1990 without government permission . the british government , which owned jaguar until 1984 , still holds a controlling `` golden share '' in the company . with the golden share as protection , jaguar officials have rebuffed ford 's overtures , and moved instead to forge an alliance with gm . jaguar officials have indicated 0 they are close to wrapping up a friendly alliance with gm that would preserve jaguar 's independence , but no deal has been announced . ford , on the other hand , has said 0 it 's willing to bid for all of jaguar , despite the objections of jaguar chairman sir john egan . analysts continued to speculate late last week that ford may try to force the issue by calling for a special shareholder 's meeting and urging that the government and jaguar holders remove the barriers to a full bidding contest before december 1990 . but a ford spokeswoman in dearborn said friday 0 the company has n't requested such a meeting yet . individuals close to the situation believe 0 ford officials will seek a meeting this week with sir john 0 to outline their proposal for a full bid . any discussions with ford could postpone the jaguar-gm deal , headed for completion within the next two weeks . the gm agreement is expected to retain jaguar 's independence by involving an eventual 30 % stake for the u.s. auto giant as well as joint manufacturing and marketing ventures . jaguar and gm hope to win jaguar shareholders approval for the accord partly by structuring it in a way that would n't preclude a full ford bid once the golden share expires . `` there 's either a minority -lcb- stake -rcb- package capable of getting jaguar shareholder approval or there is n't , '' said one knowledgeable individual . `` if there is n't , -lcb- the deal -rcb- wo n't be put forward '' to shareholders . union sentiment also could influence shareholder reaction to a jaguar-gm accord . gm 's u.k. unit holds crucial talks today with union officials about its consideration of an ellesmere port site for its first major engine plant in britain . one auto-industry union leader said , `` if they try to build it somewhere else -lcb- in europe -rcb- besides the u.k. , they are going to be in big trouble '' with unionists over any jaguar deal .