from a helicopter a thousand feet above oakland after the second-deadliest earthquake in u.s. history , a scene of devastation emerges : a freeway crumbled into a concrete sandwich , hoses pumping water into once-fashionable apartments , abandoned autos . but this quake was n't the big one , the replay of 1906 that has been feared for so many years . despite the tragic loss of more than 270 lives , and damage estimated in the billions , most businesses and their plants and offices in the bay area were n't greatly affected . the economic life of the region is expected to revive in a day or two , although some transportation problems may last weeks or months . a main factor mitigating more widespread damage was the location of the quake 's epicenter -- 20 miles from the heart of the silicon valley and more than 50 miles from downtown san francisco and oakland . also , the region 's insistence on strict building codes helped prevent wider damage . the tremendous energy of the quake was dissipated by the distance , so that most parts of the valley and the major cities suffered largely cosmetic damage -- broken windows , falling brick and cornices , buckled asphalt or sidewalks . of course , the quake was the worst since the emergence of the computer era turned silicon valley into the nation 's capital of high technology . like other major american cities , the san francisco -- oakland area owes its current prosperity more to its infrastructure of fiber-optic cables linking thousands of computer terminals and telephones than to its location astride one of the world 's great natural harbors . when the tremors struck , the region 's largely unseen high-tech fabric held up surprisingly well despite the devastation visible from the air . michael l. bandler , vice president for network technology at pacific bell telephone co. , says 0 nearly all the network 's computer switches , which move thousands of calls a minute from one location to another , changed to battery power when the city lost power . the battery packs have enough power for only three hours , but that gave emergency crews time 0 to turn on an emergency system that runs primarily on diesel fuel . of some 160 switches in pacific bell 's network , only four went down . one of those was in hollister , calif. , near the earthquake 's epicenter . few telephone lines snapped . that 's because the widely used fiber-optic cable has been installed underground with 25 extra feet of cable between junction points . the slack absorbs the pulling strain generated by an earthquake . nevertheless , phone service was sporadic ; many computer terminals remained dark , and by late yesterday a third of san francisco remained without power . business in the nation 's fourth-largest metropolitan region was nearly paralyzed ; an estimated one million members of the work force stayed at home . the economic dislocation was as abrupt as the earthquake itself , as virtually all businesses shut down . the $ 125-billion-a-year bay area economy represents one-fourth of the economy of the nation 's most populous state and accounts for 2 % to 3 % of the nation 's total output of goods and services , according to the center for continuing study of the california economy in palo alto . in high-tech , the bay area accounts for 15 % to 20 % of the u.s. computer-related industry . `` this has been a major disruption for the bay area economy , '' says pauline sweezey , the chief economist at the california department of finance . `` obviously , things are going to have to go on hold for many companies . '' the damage to the bay area 's roadways could cause significant economic hardship . a quarter of a million people cross the bay bridge every day , far more than the 100,000 that use the bay area rapid transit system -lrb- bart -rrb- -- which was working but was n't stopping in the city 's financial district yesterday afternoon because electricity was shut off and the area was being checked for gas leaks . california state transportation officials interviewed by telephone say 0 they nevertheless do n't expect serious problems for commerce in and out of the bay area . all major roadways except interstate 880 , known as the nimitz freeway , and the bay bridge were open by 1 p.m. yesterday . officials expect difficulty routing traffic through downtown san francisco . the earthquake caused many streets to buckle and crack , making them impassible . other roads were obstructed by collapsed buildings and damaged water and power lines , an emergency relief spokesman says 0 . san francisco mayor art agnos estimated the damage to his city alone at $ 2 billion . but many predicted that the commercial disruption would be short-lived . of the scores of companies contacted by this newspaper , few reported any damage that they did n't expect to have remedied within a day or two . it is possible , of course , that some of the most seriously damaged companies could n't be reached , particularly in areas nearest the epicenter . typical , perhaps , was the situation at new united motor manufacturing inc. , the general motors corp.-toyota joint-venture auto plant in fremont , about 35 miles south of oakland . ten of the plant 's workers were injured when the quake hit about a half-hour into the afternoon shift ; seven were hospitalized . metal racks on the plant floor fell over , and water mains ruptured , a spokeswoman says 0 . the plant was evacuated and workers sent home . but the plant was able to resume limited production of its toyota corollas and geo prizms by 6 a.m. yesterday , and absenteeism was only 7 % of the work force , about twice normal . computer maker hewlett-packard co. , based in palo alto , says 0 one of its buildings sustained severe damage when it was knocked off its foundation . other buildings had broken glass , dangling light fixtures and broken pipes , a spokesperson says 0 , estimating the cost of reconstruction `` in the millions . '' most banks were closed but were expected to reopen today with few problems anticipated . at the federal reserve bank of san francisco , vice president robert fienberg says 0 operations were `` steaming along as usual '' yesterday afternoon . ` when the quake hit , we turned on our emergency generator and brought our computers up , '' he says . the fed serves as a middleman for banks , taking checks from one bank and sending them to another , an operation that it handled smoothly tuesday night after the quake . `` the volume 0 we received from the banks was a lot lower than usual , '' he says . a disaster-contingency plan in which the los angeles fed would come to san francisco 's aid was n't needed , he adds 0 . most of the telephone problems in the immediate aftermath stemmed from congestion . the telephone network simply could n't handle the large number of people seeking to make a call at the same time . the volume resulted in dial-tone delays that were as short as 15 seconds and as long as five minutes . mr. bandler puts traffic volume at 10 to 50 times normal . american telephone & telegraph co. , mci communications inc. and united telecommunications ' u s sprint unit were blocking phone calls into the bay area to alleviate congestion . the companies block traffic much as highway on-ramps are blocked when traffic backs up . william e. downing , pacific bell 's vice president of customer services for the bay area , says 0 most long-distance companies were blocking about 50 % of all calls . pacific telesis says 0 its pacific bell unit also was blocking about 50 % of its calls locally . ironically , the long-term effect of the earthquake may be to bolster the bay area 's economic fortunes and , indeed , the nation 's gross national product . it may also lead to new safeguards in major construction projects such as double-deck highways . `` it would in the near-term give a boost to the san francisco economy because there will be an influx of people 0 to help , '' says beth burnham mace , a regional economist at dri\/mcgraw hill , a lexington , mass. , forecasting firm . the construction industry is sure to feel increased demand . `` there will be a big influx of federal dollars and gains in state , federal and local employment , '' ms. mace says . adds stacy kotman , an economist at georgia state university , `` there 's nothing positive about an earthquake , but it will probably generate more construction activity . '' wall street reacted swiftly yesterday to the disaster by bidding up stocks of construction and related companies . shares of lone star industries inc. , a cement maker , rose sharply in anticipation of stepped-up demand . in greenwich , conn. , lone star spokesman michael london says , 0 `` obviously with an earthquake of this size , there are likely to be construction projects that would n't otherwise have been anticipated . but any increase is n't likely to be any kind of a surge . it 's something likely to be spread out over a long period of time . there will be a lot of repair work that wo n't require the quantities of cement or concrete that new constructon would . '' lone star 's san francisco facilities were n't damaged in the quake . the earthquake is likely to reduce gnp negligibly in the near term and then could raise it a bit as rebuilding begins . the first effects are , of course , negative as work is disrupted and people lose income and cut spending . corporate profits may also dip initially . many of the lost tourism dollars wo n't be recovered ; many trips delayed never take place . subsequently , however , the ill effects are likely to be offset , at least in economic terms , as construction activity begins . because of the way 0 the government keeps its books , the damage to the bay bridge , however costly , wo n't be counted as a minus . the money spent on repairs will be counted as a plus . `` it 's very difficult to model the long-term impact of this , '' says andrew goldberg , who studies the public-policy and crisis-management aspects of earthquakes at the center for strategic international studies in washington , d.c . `` you certainly can say 0 it 's going to be extremely severe . we really are talking about shutting down a major american city for a number of days , maybe for a few weeks . '' mr. goldberg says 0 the cost of the earthquake will definitely top $ 1 billion and could reach $ 4 billion . he cautions that early damage estimates are often low ; the damage totals in hurricane hugo increased tenfold as more information was received . the earthquake damage , of course , would have been far greater if the epicenter had been in downtown san francisco . a direct hit on a major city , mr. goldberg figures 0 , would cause $ 20 billion to $ 40 billion of damage . experts caution that it is far too soon for reliable estimates of the quake 's total damage , but it 's clear that insurers are likely to pay out enormous sums . jack byrne , the chairman of fireman 's fund corp. , which is based in novato , calif. , estimates 0 insured losses resulting the earthquake could total $ 2 billion . the impact on the insurance industry `` will be big and harsh , but less than -lcb- hurricane -rcb- hugo , '' says 0 mr. byrne , who toured the bay area by car yesterday afternoon to get a sense of the company 's exposure to the earthquake . mr. byrne says 0 fireman 's fund will probably pay hundreds of millions in primary claims , but , after taxes and use of its reinsurance lines , the company 's fourthquarter charge against earnings should n't top $ 50 million . the company was able to assess its damage liability quickly because it has computerized maps of northern california showing the exact locations of all the property 0 it insures . fireman 's fund had claims adjusters on the streets of san francisco right after sunrise yesterday and was paying as many claims as it could right on the spot . fireman 's fund insures 37,300 homes and autos and 35,000 businesses in the bay area . in addition to paying for earthquake and fire damage , the insurer must cover worker-compensation claims and also losses due to businesses being shut down by lack of power or phone service . but many californians may not have adequate insurance coverage 0 to pay for damages to their property . the independent insurance agents of america says 0 fewer than one of every five california homeowners has earthquake insurance . a somewhat higher percentage of people living in the bay area have bought the additional insurance protection , but the great majority are n't covered . earthquake insurance typically runs $ 200 or more a year for a small house . whatever the long-term economic effect , the scene from the helicopter above oakland is one of tragedy . gargantuan sections of a double-decker freeway have been heaved about like plastic building blocks . atop them sit cars and trucks abandoned in a terrifying scramble to safety the day before . in areas where the freeway made giant concrete sandwiches of itself lie cars that police say 0 have been flattened into foot-thick slabs . on the periphery , rescue workers seem , from the air , to move in slow motion . they peck away at the 1 1\/2-mile section of rubble , searching for more of the 250 people thought to have died here . about 20 other deaths were also attributed to the earthquake . the heart of the earthquake , 6.9 on the richter scale , was 50 miles to the south , near santa cruz , but its terrible fist struck here on the nimitz freeway , a major artery serving the bay bridge between oakland and san francisco . along the way , the quake toppled a mall in santa cruz , knocked down buildings in san francisco 's fashionable marina district and sent a wall of bricks crashing on motorists in the city 's financial district . just a short span across the bay to the west , the quake also showed its mettle : a four-square-block area of the marina district lies smoldering under a steady stream of seawater being pumped onto rubble to prevent it from blazing anew . many of the buildings , mostly condominiums and apartments , were flattened almost instantly as the underlying soil -- much of it landfill -- was literally turned to ooze by the quake 's intensive shaking , rupturing gas lines . onlookers say 0 three persons died when one of the buildings exploded into a fireball shortly after the quake struck . efforts to fight the blaze were hampered because water mains were severed as well . from the air , ribbons of yellow fire hose carry water from the bay to high-pressure nozzles trained on the site . as onlookers stand behind barricades , helmeted firemen and building inspectors survey rows of nearby buildings that were twisted from their foundations and seem on the verge of collapse . in the marina district , residents spent yesterday assessing damage , cleaning up and trying to find friends and neighbors . evelyn boccone , 85 years old , has lived in the district most of her life . her parents lost everything in the 1906 earthquake . `` now , we realize what our mothers must have gone through , '' she says . `` we always heard about the earthquake , but as children we did n't always listen .