the united kingdom high court declared illegal a variety of interest-rate swap transactions and options deals between a london borough council and commercial banks . the ruling could lead to the cancellation of huge bank debts 0 the london borough of hammersmith and fulham ran up after losing heavily on swap transactions . as many as 70 u.k. and international banks stand to lose several hundred million pounds should the decision be upheld and set a precedent for other municipalities . an appeal is expected . in response to the ruling , gilt futures swiftly plunged more than a point yesterday before recovering much of the loss by the end of the session . gilts , or british government bonds , which also fell sharply initially , retraced some of the losses to end about 3\/8 point lower . the council , which is alleged to have engaged in over 600 deals valued at over # 6 billion -lrb- $ 9.5 billion -rrb- , lost millions of pounds from soured swap deals . at one point , hammersmith is reported to have accounted for as much as 10 % of the sterling market in interest-rate swap dealings . when two parties engage in an interest-rate swap , they are betting against each other on future rates . thus , an institution obligated to make fixed-rate interest payments on debt swaps the payments with another making floating-rate payments . in most of the british transactions , the municipalities agreed to make floating-rate payments to banks , which would make fixed-rate payments . as interest rates rose , municipalities owed the banks more than the banks were paying them . the court hearing began in early october at the request of anthony hazell , district auditor for hammersmith , who argued that local councils are n't vested with constitutional authority to engage in such capital-markets activities . the council backed the audit commission 's stand that the swap transactions are illegal . although the hammersmith and fulham council was by far the most active local authority engaging in such capital-markets transactions , the court decision could set a precedent for similar transactions by 77 other local councils . `` while this court ruling was only on hammersmith , it will obviously be very persuasive in other cases of a similar nature , '' a solicitor representing one of the banks said . already , 10 local councils have refused to honor fees and payments to banks incurred during various swaps dealings . other financial institutions involved include barclays bank plc , midland bank plc , security pacific corp. , chemical banking corp. 's chemical bank , citicorp 's citibank and mitsubishi finance international . if the banks exhaust all avenues of appeal , it is possible that they would seek to have the illegality ruling work both ways , some market sources said 0 . banks could seek to recover payments to local authorities in instances where the banks made net payments to councils . officials from the various banks involved are expected to meet during the next few days to consider other arrangements with local authorities that could be questionable . the banks have 28 days 0 to file an appeal against the ruling and are expected to do so shortly .