renault and daf trucks nv announced a preliminary agreement to jointly manufacture a line of trucks in britain and france . philippe gras , a renault managing director , said 0 the new line will cover trucks of between 2.5 tons and 4.2 tons and will be built at renault 's bapilly plant in france and at daf 's british plant . the french state-controlled auto group and the dutch truck maker plan to incorporate the new trucks into their product lines when they begin production toward the middle of the 1990s . mr. gras said 0 he expects a definitive agreement between the two companies to be completed in the next few months . the venture is the latest example of the trend toward cooperative projects in europe ahead of the 1992 deadline for eliminating trade barriers within the european community . renault and daf are expected to invest a total of about three billion french francs -lrb- $ 157.8 million -rrb- in the venture , including ffr 1 billion for design and development costs . in addition , the companies will each spend about ffr 1 billion on tooling up their plants . mr. gras said 0 the joint venture represents considerable savings for both renault and daf , since both companies would in any case have had to renew their existing ranges of light goods vehicles . by pooling their resources , the two groups have effectively halved the design and development costs that would otherwise have been entailed , he said 0 . renault officials said 0 the potential european market for light trucks in the 2.5-ton to 4.2-ton range is between 700,000 and 800,000 vehicles annually , and renault and daf are aiming for a combined market share of about 11 % . both renault and daf will have world-wide marketing rights for the new range of vans and light trucks . under a separate arrangement , british aerospace plc 's rover group plc subsidiary will also be able to offer the vehicles through its dealers in the u.k. , and renault 's truck-building subsidiary renault vehicles industriels will have similar rights in france . daf is 16%-owned by british aerospace , with a further 6.5 % held by the dutch state-owned chemical group nv dsm . the van doorne family of the netherlands holds an additional 11 % of daf 's capital .