sea containers ltd. said 0 it might increase the price of its $ 70-a-share buy-back plan if pressed by temple holdings ltd. , which made an earlier tender offer for sea containers . sea containers , a hamilton , bermuda-based shipping concern , said tuesday that it would sell $ 1.1 billion of assets and use some of the proceeds to buy about 50 % of its common shares for $ 70 apiece . the move is designed to ward off a hostile takeover attempt by two european shipping concerns , stena holding ag and tiphook plc . in may , the two companies , through their jointly owned holding company , temple , offered $ 50 a share , or $ 777 million , for sea containers . in august , temple sweetened the offer to $ 63 a share , or $ 963 million . yesterday , sea containers ' chief executive officer , james sherwood , said in an interview that , under the asset-sale plan , sea containers would end up with a cash surplus of approximately $ 620 million . about $ 490 million of that would be allocated to the buy-back , leaving about $ 130 million , he said 0 . that $ 130 million , mr. sherwood said 0 , `` gives us some flexibility in case temple raises its bid . we are able to increase our price above the $ 70 level if necessary . '' he declined to say , however , how much sea containers might raise its price . mr. sherwood speculated that the leeway that sea containers has means that temple would have to `` substantially increase their bid if they 're going to top us . '' temple , however , harshly criticized sea containers ' plan yesterday , characterizing it as a `` highly conditional device designed to entrench management , confuse shareholders and prevent them from accepting our superior cash offer . '' a spokesman for temple estimated that sea containers ' plan -- if all the asset sales materialize -- would result in shareholders receiving only $ 36 to $ 45 a share in cash . the lower figures , the spokesman said 0 , would stem from preferred shares being converted to common stock and the possibility that sea containers ' subsidiaries might be required to place their shares in the open market . temple added that sea containers is still mired in legal problems in bermuda , where the supreme court has temporarily barred sea containers from buying back its own stock in a case brought by stena and tiphook . -lcb- the court has indicated 0 it will rule on the case by the end of the month . -rcb- temple also said 0 sea containers ' plan raises `` numerous legal , regulatory , financial and fairness issues , '' but did n't elaborate . mr. sherwood said 0 reaction to sea containers ' proposal has been `` very positive . '' in new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday , sea containers closed at $ 62.625 , up 62.5 cents .