throughout the 1980s , investors have been looking for creative alternatives to traditional modes of financial planning . capital has been democratized , and people want in . too often , however , small investors are left with the same stale solutions that appealed to previous generations of fiduciary strategists . now a startling new approach is available to building your financial portfolio without undue risk , without extensive planning and without hurting your life style one bit ! this is particularly good news for those who hate risk , who are incapable of doing extensive amounts of planning and who refuse to see their life styles hurt in any way . you know who you are . my revolutionary system is also useful for those who have tried customary forms of growing their currency cushion . like all americans seeking chronic prosperity , i do find it necessary to plunge certain funds into conservative monetary tools , if only to assuage my father-in-law , who believes in such things . so throughout the decade i have maintained my share of individual retirement accounts and cds , and tinkered with stocks , bonds and mutual funds , as well as preserving my necessary position in the residential real-estate market . return on this fine portfolio has been modest when it has not been negative . figure 1 demonstrates the performance of those businesses 0 i 've invested in during this prosperous decade -lrb- see accompanying illustration -- wsj oct. 20 , 1989 -rrb- . oil-related properties suffered a huge decline until i divested myself of all such stocks in 1985 , at which point the industry , while not lighting up any christmas trees , began a slow recovery . likewise , mutual funds remained relatively flat until i made what was , for me , a serious investment . by 1987 , these properties were in a tailspin , causing my broker at pru-bache to remark that she 'd `` never seen anything like it . '' concerned for her state of mind , i dropped them -- and the market instantly began its steady climb back to health . perhaps most dramatic was the performance of the metropolitan new york real-estate market , which was booming until i entered it in late 1988 , at which time it posted the first negative compound annual growth rate in years . disgusted , i cast around for a different way 0 to plan my asset distribution , and with hardly any heavy breathing the answer struck me : i was doing it already ! we 've all got money 0 to spend , some of it clearly disposable since we keep disposing of it . bank it ? not really ! sock it away in long-term instruments ? nonsense ! daily living is the best possible investment ! your priorities may be different , but here in figure 2 is where i 've chosen to build for the future : personal space ; automotive pursuits ; children 's toys ; gardening equipment , bulbs and shrubs ; and finally , entertainment , perhaps the best investment of all . all have paid off for me in double-digit annual growth and continue to provide significant potential . at least , according to my calculations . personal space -lrb- figure 3 -rrb- has grown 35 % annually over the course of the decade , a performance that would compare positively with an investment in , say , synthetic-leather products for the interiors of cold-weather vehicles , which my cousin got into and sort of regrets to this day . the assortment of expensive children 's toys that i have purchased wisely at a host of discount-toy brokerage firms -lrb- figure 4 -rrb- has increased handsomely in total asset value far beyond any personal investment except , perhaps , for my record collection , whose worth , i think 0 it 's safe to say , is incalculable . continued investment in my 1984 subcompact has been part of my strategy -lrb- figure 5 -rrb- , with present annual contributions now equaling more than 60 % of the car 's original value . according to my calculations , these outlays should have brought the value of my sedan to more than $ 22,000 on the open market -lrb- figure 6 -rrb- , where i plan to offer it shortly . expansion of my living space has produced an obvious need for maintenance and construction of suitable lawns , shrubs and bushes fitting to its suburban locale . i have thus committed sufficient personal outlay to ensure that my grounds and lodgings will never be short of greens and flowers . my initial stake in this blooming enterprise has grown tenfold , according to my conservative calculations . at the same time , my share in a wide variety of entertainment pursuits has given perhaps the most dramatic demonstration of the benefits of creative personal financial planning . over the course of the decade , for instance , my return on investment in the area of poker alone -lrb- figures 7a and 7b -rrb- has been most impressive , showing bodacious annual expansion with -- given the way 0 my associates play -- no sign of abatement into the 1990s and beyond . with this personal strategy firmly in place , i look forward to years of fine life-style investments and increasing widespread leverage . my kids ' college education looms as perhaps the greatest future opportunity for spending , although i 'll probably have to cash in their toy portfolio to take advantage of it . but with every step 0 i take , i 'm building wealth . you can , too , if you , like me , refuse to bite the bullet . so go out there and eat that debt . you 're right there in the mainstream of american business , building value on the back of insupportable expenditures . henry kravis , watch out ! mr. schwartz is a business executive and writer in new york .