whittle communications l.p. , which for months has fought a public relations battle with education leaders , said 0 it has signed 500 schools in 24 states to subscribe to the controversial channel one news program and its sister programs . channel one , a satellite-delivered daily program supported by advertising , is scheduled to be launched next march . whittle said 0 its field staff signed up the 500 schools in 238 school districts after only eight weeks and company executives now expect to reach their start-up goal of 1,000 schools before the end of this year . christopher whittle , chairman of the knoxville , tenn. , media company that is 50 % owned by time warner inc. , said that by december 1990 he expects to have channel one installed in about 8,000 schools with a potential audience of six million . installation of the tv system , which includes providing free 19-inch tv sets in classrooms , begins in january . `` what we 've done in eight weeks shows 0 we wo n't have enormous difficulties getting to the place 0 we want to be , '' said mr. whittle . he said 0 his sales force is signing up schools at the rate of 25 a day . in california and new york , state officials have opposed channel one . mr. whittle said 0 private and parochial schools in both states will be canvassed to see if they are interested in getting the programs . subscribing schools get the 12-minute daily channel one news program , whose four 30-second tv ads during each show have drawn protests from educators . subscribers also get the classroom channel , which will feature ad-free educational programming similar to some public-tv shows , and the educator 's channel , which will offer instructional programming for teachers and school administrators and will be supported by advertising . whittle has met some resistance . the educational network , as mr. whittle has named the three programs , has been offered to 1,290 school districts and whittle continues to negotiate with 919 districts . about 10 % of the school districts approached have rejected the network . mr. whittle said that so far , three of the six schools that carried the program in a five-week test last spring have subscribed to the program . one of the test schools , withrow high school in cincinnati , rejected the project . john bruner , associate director of communications for cincinnati public schools , said 0 channel one was rejected because students watching the program did n't fare particularly better on a 28-question current events quiz than a control school without the program and school absences were almost unchanged during the period when the program was being aired . `` the number of correct responses was 45 % on the test and school absences did n't change much , '' said mr. bruner . `` the pilot program was received well -lrb- by teachers and students -rrb- , but there was n't reason enough to sign up . we even invited the public to stop by and see the program , but there was n't much interest . '' advertisers are showing interest . last month , whittle announced 0 it had sold $ 150 million in advertising time on the network to national advertisers . mr. whittle friday said 0 several more advertisers have been added . whittle is spending $ 150 million initially to launch the network . installation of satellite dishes , tvs and videocassette equipment will cost the company about $ 20,000 per school , mr. whittle said 0 .