measuring cups may soon be replaced by tablespoons in the laundry room . procter & gamble co. plans to begin testing next month a superconcentrated detergent that will require only a few spoonfuls per washload . the move stems from lessons learned in japan where local competitors have had phenomenal success with concentrated soapsuds . it also marks p&g 's growing concern that its japanese rivals , such as kao corp. , may bring their superconcentrates to the u.s. . the cincinnati consumer-products giant got clobbered two years ago in japan when kao introduced a powerful detergent , called attack , which quickly won a 30 % stake in the japanese markets . `` they do n't want to get caught again , '' says one industry watcher . retailers in phoenix , ariz. , say 0 p&g 's new powdered detergent -- 0 to be called cheer with color guard -- will be on shelves in that market by early november . a p&g spokeswoman confirmed that shipments to phoenix started late last month . she said 0 the company will study results from this market before expanding to others . superconcentrates are n't entirely new for p&g . the company introduced a superconcentrated lemon cheer in japan after watching the success of attack . when attack hit the shelves in 1987 , p&g 's share of the japanese market fell to about 8 % from more than 20 % . with the help of lemon cheer , p&g 's share is now estimated to be 12 % . while the japanese have embraced the compact packaging and convenience of concentrated products , the true test for p&g will be in the $ 4 billion u.s. detergent market , where growth is slow and liquids have gained prominence over powders . the company may have chosen to market the product under the cheer name since it 's already expanded its best-selling tide into 16 different varieties , including this year 's big hit , tide with bleach . with superconcentrates , however , it is n't always easy to persuade consumers that less is more ; many people tend to dump too much detergent into the washing machine , believing that it takes a cup of powder to really clean the laundry . in the early 1980s , p&g tried to launch here a concentrated detergent under the ariel brand name that it markets in europe . but the product , which was n't as concentrated as the new cheer , bombed in a market test in denver and was dropped . p&g and others also have tried repeatedly to hook consumers on detergent and fabric softener combinations in pouches , but they have n't sold well , despite the convenience . but p&g contends 0 the new cheer is a unique formula that also offers an ingredient that prevents colors from fading . and retailers are expected to embrace the product , in part because it will take up less shelf space . `` when shelf space was cheap , bigger was better , '' says hugh zurkuhlen , an analyst at salomon bros . but with so many brands vying for space , that 's no longer the case . if the new cheer sells well , the trend toward smaller packaging is likely to accelerate as competitors follow with their own superconcentrates . then retailers `` will probably push the -lcb- less-established -rcb- brands out altogether , '' he says 0 . competition is bound to get tougher if kao introduces a product like attack in the u.s. . to be sure , kao would n't have an easy time taking u.s. market share away from the mighty p&g , which has about 23 % of the market . kao officials previously have said 0 they are interested in selling detergents in the u.s. , but so far the company has focused on acquisitions , such as last year 's purchase of andrew jergens co. , a cincinnati hand-lotion maker . it also has a product-testing facility in california . some believe 0 p&g 's interest in a superconcentrated detergent goes beyond the concern for the japanese . `` this is something 0 p&g would do with or without kao , '' says mr. zurkuhlen .