-lrb- during its centennial year , the wall street journal will report events of the past century that stand as milestones of american business history . -rrb- mutual funds arrived in the u.s. during the roaring twenties -lrb- they had been in britain for a century -rrb- , but they did n't boom until the money market fund was created in the 1970s . by 1980 , there were more than 100 such funds . besides creating a vehicle for investors , money market funds also helped rewrite banking regulations . the idea was to let small investors , the backbone of the fund business , deal in the money market 's high short-term interest rates . this had been the exclusive province of those rich enough to use six-figure sums to get income that was figured beyond the third or fourth decimal place . the now-standard price of $ 1 a share came about by accident . an early fund had filed a registration with the securities and exchange commission that included a fixed $ 1 price . it arrived just as the regulator handling such operations was retiring . his successor approved the $ 1 price in the process of clearing the backed-up papers on his desk . when dreyfus started the first advertising-backed retail fund in february 1974 , it was priced at $ 10 a share -lrb- and reached $ 1 billion in assets in one year . -rrb- dreyfus moved to the $ 1 price after the sec set standards -- an average 120-day maturity of high-grade paper -- that are still the rule . keeping the listed price at a dollar is primarily a convenience . actually , the funds do fluctuate , but beyond the third decimal place . rounding-off keeps them at $ 1 . eventually , the money funds ' success forced relaxation of curbs on bank interest rates 0 to allow banks to offer competing yields . the new instrument also introduced many to the industry -- 30 % of fund owners -lrb- there are more than 54 million accounts -rrb- started with a money fund . today more than 470 money market funds have total assets exceeding $ 350 billion . -lrb- the companion tax-exempt funds add $ 71 billion . -rrb- dreyfus alone has seen its money market funds grow from $ 1 billion in 1975 to closes to $ 15 billion today .