after several years of booming business with china , foreign traders are bracing for the biggest slump in a decade . the imposition of austerity measures , starting last october , already had begun to pinch when the massacre in tiananmen square on june 4 and subsequent events tugged the belt far tighter . foreign lending has been virtually suspended since then , choking liquidity and hobbling many projects . and beijing has pulled back on domestic loans and subsidies , leaving many domestic buyers and export-oriented plants strapped for cash . givaudan far east ltd. , a swiss concern that sells chemicals to shampoo and soap factories in china , typifies the problems . last year 's retrenchment dried up the working capital of chinese factories . the company 's sales flattened during 1989 's first half . the june killings magnified the problems . in canton , givaudan 's representative office received no orders in june . at first it attributed the slump to temporary business disruptions , but when no orders were logged in august and september , manager donald lai became convinced that business would be bad for many months . `` things have grown worse since june 4 , '' mr. lai says . he predicts that sales will drop between 30 % and 40 % from last year 's $ 3 million . the consumer-products and light-industrial sectors are bearing the brunt of china 's austerity measures , and foreign companies such as givaudan that deal with those industries are being hit the hardest . but in general , all foreign-trading companies are feeling the pinch . `` the import pie will shrink , '' says john kamm , first vice president of the american chamber of commerce in hong kong and a china trade specialist . `` on the down side , sales could fall as much as 90 % for some companies ; on the upper side , sales will be flat . '' china 's foreign trade has gone in cycles during the past decade . the last time that traders experienced a trough was during 1985-86 , when beijing imposed tough measures 0 to curb imports and conserve foreign exchange . the current trough is expected to be much deeper , because beijing has cut off domestic funds from factories for the first time to slow inflation . in addition , the suspension of loans and export credits from foreign governments and institutions following the june killings have been a big setback . `` the freeze on new lending is dealing the single biggest blow to trading , '' says raymond wong , china manager for mannesmann ag , a west german machinery-trading company . import growth from the year-earlier months slowed to 16 % in july and 7.1 % in august , compared with an average growth rate of 26 % in the first half . in the first eight months of 1989 , imports grew 21 % , to $ 38.32 billion , down slightly from a growth rate of 23 % a year earlier . the picture for china 's exports is just as bleak , mainly because of the domestic credit squeeze . exports in the first eight months grew only 9 % , to $ 31.48 billion , compared with a growth rate of 25 % a year earlier , according to chinese customs figures . the threat to china 's balance of payments is further aggravated by the plunge in its foreign-exchange reserves , excluding gold holdings . the reserves dropped for the first time in recent years , to $ 14 billion in june from $ 19 billion in april . the trend has prompted beijing to intensify efforts to curb imports . in recent weeks , china 's leaders have recentralized trading in wool and scores of chemical products and commodities . the ministry of foreign economic relations and trade set up a special bureau last month to monitor the issue of import and export licenses . beijing 's periodic clampdowns on imports have taught many trading companies that the best way 0 to get through the drought is by helping china export . for example , nissho iwai corp. , one of the biggest japanese trading houses , now buys almost twice as many goods from china as it sells to that country . three years ago , the ratio was reversed . but the strategy is n't helping much this time . `` both sectors of imports and exports look just as bad , '' says masahiko kitamura , general manager of nissho iwai 's canton office . he expects the company 's trading business to drop as much as 40 % this year . for a short time after june 4 , it appeared that the trade picture would remain fairly bright . many foreign trading offices in hong kong were swamped with telexes and telephone calls from chinese trade officials urging them not to sever ties . even the bank of china , which normally took weeks to process letters of credit , was settling the letters at record speed to dispel rumors about the bank 's financial health . but when foreign traders tried to do business , they discovered that the eagerness of chinese trade officials was just a smokescreen . the suspension of foreign loans has weakened the buying power of china 's national trading companies , which are among the country 's biggest importers . business is n't any better on the provincial or municipal level , foreign traders say 0 . shanghai investment & trust co. , known as sitco , is the city 's main financier for trading business . sitco had customarily tapped the japanese bond market for funds , but it ca n't do that any longer . foreign traders say 0 the company is strapped for cash . `` it has difficulties paying its foreign debts , '' says a hong kong executive who is familiar with sitco 's business . `` how can it make available funds for purchases ? '' foreign traders also say 0 many of china 's big infrastructural projects have been canceled or postponed because of the squeeze on domestic and foreign credit . albert lee , a veteran trader who specializes in machinery sales , estimates that as many as 70 % of projects that had obtained approval to proceed have been canceled in recent months . `` there are virtually no new projects , and that means no new business for us , '' he says 0 . even when new lending resumes , foreign exchange would still be tight because beijing will likely try to rein in foreign borrowing , which has grown between 30 % and 40 % in the past few years . and foreign creditors are likely to be more cautious about extending new loans because china is nearing a peak repayment period as many loans start falling due in the next two to five years . another reason for the intensity of the trade problems is that beijing has extended the current clampdown on imports beyond the usual target of consumer products to include steel , chemical fertilizers and plastics . these have been among the country 's leading imports , particularly last year when there were shortages that led many traders to buy heavily and pay dearly . but the shortages also spawned rampant speculation and spiraling prices . to stem speculation , beijing imposed ceiling prices that went into effect earlier this year . traders who had bought the goods at prices above the ceiling do n't want to take a loss on resales and are holding onto their stock . the resulting stockpiling has depressed the market . but beijing ca n't cut back on such essential imports as raw materials for too long without hampering the country 's export business . mr. kamm , the china trade expert , estimates that as much as 50 % of guangdong 's exports is made up of processed imported raw materials .