integrated resources inc. , the troubled financial-services company that has been trying to sell its core companies to restructure debt , said 0 talks with a potential buyer ended . integrated did n't identify the party or say why the talks failed . last week another potential buyer , whitehall financial group -- which had agreed in august to purchase most of integrated 's core companies for $ 310 million -- ended talks with integrated . integrated said that it would continue to pursue `` other alternatives '' to sell the five core companies and that a group of senior executives plans to make a proposal to purchase three of the companies -- integrated resources equity corp. , resources trust co. and integrated resources asset management corp . a price was n't disclosed . integrated also said 0 it expects to report a second-quarter loss wider than the earlier estimate of about $ 600 million . the company did n't disclose the new estimate but said 0 the change was related to integrated 's failure to sell its core businesses , as well as `` other events , '' which it did n't detail , that occurred after its announcement last week that it was in talks with the unidentified prospective buyer . meanwhile , a number of top sales producers from integrated resources equity will meet this afternoon in chicago to discuss their options . the unit is a loosely constructed group of about 3,900 independent brokers and financial planners who sell insurance , annuities , limited partnerships , mutual funds and other investments for integrated and other firms . the sales force is viewed as a critical asset in integrated 's attempt to sell its core companies . whitehall cited concerns about how long integrated would be able to hold together the sales force as one reason 0 its talks with integrated failed . in composite trading on the new york stock exchange yesterday , integrated closed at $ 1.25 a share , down 25 cents . integrated has been struggling to avoid a bankruptcy-law filing since june , when it failed to make interest payments on nearly $ 1 billion of debt . integrated senior and junior creditors are owed a total of about $ 1.8 billion .