the government sold the deposits of four savings-and-loan institutions , in its first wave of sales of big , sick thrifts , but low bids prevented the sale of a fifth . the four s&ls were sold to large banks , as was the case with most of the 28 previous transactions initiated by the resolution trust corp. since it was created in the s&l bailout legislation two months ago . two of the four big thrifts were sold to ncnb corp. , charlotte , n.c. , which has aggressively expanded its markets , particularly in texas and florida . a canadian bank bought another thrift , in the first rtc transaction with a foreign bank . under these deals , the rtc sells just the deposits and the healthy assets . these `` clean-bank '' transactions leave the bulk of bad assets , mostly real estate , with the government , to be sold later . in these four , for instance , the rtc is stuck with $ 4.51 billion in bad assets . acquirers paid premiums ranging from 1.5 % to 3.7 % for the deposits and branch systems , roughly in line with what analysts were expecting . the buyers will also be locked into deposit rates for just two weeks , as has been the case with previous deals . after that , the buyers may repudiate the rates paid by the former thrifts . but it 's uncertain whether these institutions will take those steps . ncnb , for example , has been one of the highest rate payers in the texas market , and in florida , rates are especially sensitive in retirement communities . the rtc had previously targeted five thrifts for quick sales in order to spend cash by certain budgetary deadlines , but the delays illustrate the tough chore facing the agency . `` these thrifts are beached whales , '' said bert ely , an industry consultant based in alexandria , va . for example , the delay in selling people 's heritage savings , salina , kan. , with $ 1.7 billion in assets , has forced the rtc to consider selling off the thrift branch-by-branch , instead of as a whole institution . ncnb continued its foray into the florida and texas markets . ncnb will acquire university federal savings association , houston , which had assets of $ 2.8 billion . ncnb texas national bank will pay the rtc a premium of $ 129 million for $ 3.5 billion in deposits . as a measure of the depths to which the texas real estate market has sunk , the rtc will pay $ 3.8 billion to ncnb to take $ 750 million of bad assets . ncnb also acquired freedom savings & loan association , tampa , fla. , which had total assets of $ 900 million . ncnb will pay the rtc a premium of $ 40.4 million for $ 1.1 billion in deposits . ncnb will also acquire $ 266 million of freedom 's assets from the rtc , which will require $ 875 million in assistance . meridian bancorp inc. , reading , pa. , will acquire hill financial savings association , red hill , pa. , which had $ 2.3 billion in assets . meridian will pay a premium of $ 30.5 million to assume $ 2 billion in deposits . it will also purchase $ 845 million of the thrift 's assets , with $ 1.9 billion in rtc assistance . in the first rtc transaction with a foreign buyer , royal trustco ltd. , toronto , will acquire pacific savings bank , costa mesa , calif. , which had $ 949 million in assets . royal trustco will pay the rtc $ 25 million to assume $ 989 million in deposits . it will also purchase $ 473 million in assets , and receive $ 550 million in assistance from the rtc .