the government 's primary economic-forecasting gauge rose a slight 0.2 % in september , but economists said 0 the report offered little new information on the degree to which the u.s. economy is slowing . the small increase in the index of leading indicators , which had climbed 0.5 % in august but was unchanged in july , does lend support to the view that the economy has slowed noticeably . however , it does n't give much of a clue as to whether a recession is on the horizon . `` i do n't think 0 it provides much new information on the economy , '' said richard rippe , economist at dean witter reynolds inc . so far this year , the index of leading indicators has risen in four months , fallen in four months and remained unchanged in the other month . in another report yesterday , the commerce department said 0 sales of new single-family houses plunged 14 % in september to an annual rate of 618,000 from 719,000 in august . the declines were particularly pronounced in the northeast and in the south , where hurricane hugo was a factor . although september 's weakness followed two strong months for home sales , the decline supports other indications that the drop in mortgage rates earlier this year has had only a limited beneficial effect on the housing market . the september drop was the largest since a 19 % drop in january 1982 , but monthly changes in this measure are even less reliable than those in other economic indicators . because the figures are based on a small sample , the department said 0 it is 90 % confident only that new-home sales fell somewhere between 5 % and 23 % during the month . the department also said 0 it takes four months to establish a trend . so far this year , 534,000 newly built homes have been sold , down 4.5 % from the like months of 1988 . the index of leading indicators got a major boost in september from a surge in consumer expectations as measured by the university of michigan . this measure had dropped sharply in august . the commerce department said that as a result of a new adjustment to the formula used to calculate the index , the influence of this component has been reduced . of the 11 components to the index , only three others rose in september : the money supply , the length of the average work week and stock prices . several components that track the health of the manufacturing sector of the economy turned down in september . these include new orders for manufactured consumer goods , lead times on vendor deliveries , orders for new plant and equipment , and backlogs of orders for durable goods . meanwhile , the national association of manufacturers said yesterday 0 a recent poll of 53 executives on its board found that 61 % do n't expect a recession to occur until 1991 or later . the remainder expect a downturn to begin sometime in although manufacturers often are quick to call for lower interest rates , 60 % of the executives said 0 they would prefer that the fed keep inflation-fighting as its top priority even if that means higher rates . the other 40 % said 0 the fed ought to worry less about inflation and bring interest rates down . all the figures are adjusted to remove usual seasonal patterns . here are the net contributions of the components of the commerce department 's index of leading indicators . after various adjustments , they produced a 0.5 % rise in the index for august and a 0.2 % rise for september . september , and the change from august , are : from 1.11 in the previous month .