program traders are fond of predicting that if they are blocked in the u.s. , they will simply emigrate to foreign stock markets . but in london and tokyo , where computer-driven trading now plays a small but growing role , traders say 0 a number of hurdles loom . government officials , especially in japan , probably would resist any onslaught of program trading by players trying to shrug off the u.s. furor over their activities and marching abroad with their business . japan is `` very concerned '' about the possible effects of program trading , a senior japanese official said 0 after the oct. 13 stock plunge in new york . u.s. stock-index futures are n't even traded in japan now . and because of the time difference , the japanese and the u.s. markets ' trading hours do n't overlap . it all adds up to a barrier to american-style index arbitrage , the most popular form of u.s. program trading that seeks to exploit brief differences between prices of stocks in new york and the price of a futures contract in chicago based on those stocks . about 11.6 % of all program trading by new york stock exchange firms in september took place in foreign markets , according to big board data . yet it is difficult to imagine japan racing to introduce chicago-style stock-index futures . japan 's finance ministry already is scrutinizing institutional investors ' activity to see whether policy changes are needed to cope with the current level of program trading , said 0 makato utsumi , vice minister for international finance . program trading has taken off in japan since last year 's introduction of home-market stock-index futures trading on the tokyo and osaka stock exchanges . but regulators are wary . they have n't forgotten the leap in share prices last dec. 7 , when the first bout of foreign-led index arbitrage drove stocks skyward in the last half-hour of trading , startling regulators who thought 0 they had written enough rules 0 to prevent such a swing . japan 's finance ministry had set up mechanisms 0 to limit how far futures prices could fall in a single session and to give market operators the authority to suspend trading in futures at any time . `` maybe it was n't enough , '' a finance ministry official noted after the dec. 7 surge . japan 's regulators have since tightened controls on index-related stock purchases . tokyo 's leading program traders are the big u.s. securities houses , though the japanese are playing catch-up . some u.s. firms , notably salomon inc. and morgan stanley group inc. , have reaped a hefty chunk of their japanese earnings from index arbitrage , both for customers and for their own accounts . -lrb- morgan stanley last week joined a growing list of u.s. securities firms that have stopped doing index arbitrage for their own accounts . -rrb- both deryck c. maughan , who heads salomon in tokyo , and john s. wadsworth , who heads morgan stanley there , ascribe a good part of their firms ' success in tokyo to their ability to offer sophisticated , futures-related investment strategies to big institutional clients . they do n't have plans to cut back . `` it has not been disruptive in the markets here , '' mr. maughan said . `` the real difference seems to be that the cash market here ... is big enough and liquid enough that the futures market is n't having the same impact 0 it does in america . '' the british also are scrutinizing program trades . index-arbitrage trading is `` something 0 we want to watch closely , '' an official at london 's stock exchange said 0 . `` we do n't think 0 there is cause for concern at the moment . '' london serves increasingly as a conduit for program trading of u.s. stocks . market professionals said 0 london has several attractions . first , the trading is done over the counter and is n't reported on either the u.s. or london stock trading tapes . second , it can be used to unwind positions before u.s. trading begins , but at prices pegged to the previous session 's big board close . in addition to the extra privacy of these trades , the transactions can often be less expensive to execute , because the parties do n't have to pay a floor brokerage fee or a specialist 's fee . still , `` much less -lcb- index-arbitrage activity -rcb- is done over here than in the u.s. '' said 0 richard barfield , chief investment manager at standard life assurance co. , which manages about # 15 billion -lrb- $ 23.72 billion -rrb- in united kingdom institutional funds . britain has two main index-arbitrage instruments . a financial times-stock exchange 100-share index option contract is traded on the london stock exchange 's traded options market . and an ft-se futures contract is traded on the london international financial futures exchange . both contracts have gained a following since the 1987 global market crash . the average number of ft-se option contracts traded on the london exchange has surged nearly tenfold since the contract 's launch in 1984 . this year , the average of daily contracts traded totaled 9,118 , up from 4,645 a year earlier and from 917 in 1984 . but a survey early this summer indicated that the volume of index-options trading was only 15 % of the size of the underlying equity market , exchange officials said 0 . this compares with estimates that the u.s. `` derivatives '' market is perhaps four times as large as the underlying domestic market .