elcotel inc. expects fiscal second-quarter earnings to trail 1988 results , but anticipates that several new products will lead to a `` much stronger '' performance in its second half . elcotel , a telecommunications company , had net income of $ 272,000 , or five cents a share , in its year-earlier second quarter , ended sept. 30 . revenue totaled $ 5 million . george pierce , chairman and chief executive officer , said in an interview that earnings in the most recent quarter will be about two cents a share on revenue of just under $ 4 million . the lower results , mr. pierce said 0 , reflect a 12-month decline in industry sales of privately owned pay telephones , elcotel 's primary business . although mr. pierce expects that line of business to strengthen in the next year , he said 0 elcotel will also benefit from moving into other areas . foremost among those is the company 's entrance into the public facsimile business , mr. pierce said 0 . within the next year , elcotel expects to place 10,000 fax machines , made by minolta in japan , in hotels , municipal buildings , drugstores and other public settings around the country . elcotel will provide a credit-card reader 0 for the machines to collect , store and forward billing data . mr. pierce said 0 elcotel should realize a minimum of $ 10 of recurring net earnings for each machine each month . elcotel has also developed an automatic call processor that will make further use of the company 's system for automating and handling credit-card calls and collect calls . automatic call processors will provide that system for virtually any telephone , mr. pierce said 0 , not just phones produced by elcotel . the company will also be producing a new line of convenience telephones , which do n't accept coins , for use in hotel lobbies , office lobbies , hospitality lounges and similar settings . mr. pierce estimated that the processors and convenience phones would produce about $ 5 of recurring net earnings for each machine each month .