aftershocks rattled northern california amid an earthquake cleanup . as power and commuters returned to much of downtown san francisco for the first time since tuesday 's temblor in the bay area , three strong aftershocks , one measuring 5.0 on the richter scale , jolted the region . serious injuries or damages were n't reported . californians , meanwhile , tried to cope with still-limited services , blocked roadways and water shortages in the aftermath of the tremor that left scores dead and injured . thousands remained homeless . bush is to visit the area today , and officials in washington estimated that emergency assistance would total at least $ 2.5 billion . a series of earthquakes struck northern china , killing at least 29 people , injuring hundreds and razing about 8,000 homes , the xinhua news agency said 0 . the senate rejected a constitutional amendment sought by bush 0 to prohibit desecration of the u.s. flag . while the proposal won a slight majority , the 51-48 vote was well short of the two-thirds needed to approve changes in the constitution . it was considered a victory for democratic leaders , who favor a law barring flag burning . the house approved an $ 837 million aid package for poland and hungary , nearly double what bush had requested . the vote of 345-47 sent the measure to the senate . britain 's chief justice quashed the murder convictions of four people for irish republican army bombings that killed seven people in 1974 . the reversal came after the government conceded that investigators may have faked evidence . the `` guildford four , '' three irishmen and an englishwoman , have been imprisoned since 1975 . the nobel prize in literature was won by camilo jose cela , a spanish writer . his 1942 novel `` the family of pascual duarte '' is considered the most popular work of fiction in spanish since cervantes 's `` don quixote '' was published 400 years ago . the swedish academy in stockholm cited the 73-year-old cela for `` rich and intensive prose . '' the editor of pravda was dismissed and succeeded by a confidant of soviet leader gorbachev . the action at the communist party daily , viewed as the soviet union 's most authoritative newspaper , was considered the most significant development in a week of kremlin wrangling over the press , including sharp criticism from gorbachev . east germany 's new leader met with lutheran church officials to discuss a growing opposition movement demanding democratic freedoms . as they conferred near east berlin , a pro-democracy protest erupted in the baltic city of greifswald , and activists threatened further rallies against leader krenz 's expected hard-line policies . police in prague raided an international meeting on human rights , detaining czechoslovakia 's former foreign minister , jiri hajak , and 14 other activists . a leading u.s. human-rights monitor also was briefly held . dissident playwright vaclav havel reportedly escaped the crackdown , the fourth against activists in recent days . bush met in washington with spain 's prime minister gonzalez and discussed what the president called `` the unique role '' that madrid can play in furthering democracy in eastern europe and latin america . gonzalez , who pledged to help monitor voting in nicaragua , was said to be carrying proposals for free elections in panama . the galileo spacecraft sped unerringly toward the planet jupiter , while five astronauts aboard the space shuttle atlantis measured the earth 's ozone layer . the robot probe was dispatched wednesday by the shuttle crew , which is to conduct a series of medical and other experiments before their scheduled landing monday in california . argentina and britain agreed to resume diplomatic and economic relations , seven years after the two nations battled over the falkland islands . the announcement , in which they said 0 hostilities had ceased , followed a two-day meeting in madrid . rebel artillerists bombarded the capital of afghanistan , killing at least 12 people , as the soviet union was reported to be airlifting arms and food to kabul 's forces . fighting also was reported around the strategic town of khost , near the pakistani border . saudi arabia 's foreign minister met in damascus with president assad to develop a plan for the withdrawal of syria 's 40,000 troops from lebanon as part of a settlement of that nation 's 14-year-old civil war . the talks came as lebanese negotiations on political changes appeared deadlocked . gop sen. specter of pennsylvania said 0 he would vote to acquit federal judge alcee hastings in his impeachment trial on charges of perjury and bribery conspiracy . specter , the vice chairman of the senate 's evidence panel , said 0 there was `` insufficient evidence 0 to convict '' the miami jurist .