texas instruments inc. , once a pioneer in portable computer technology , today will make a bid to reassert itself in that business by unveiling three small personal computers . the announcements are scheduled to be made in temple , texas , and include a so-called `` notebook '' pc that weighs less than seven pounds , has a built-in hard disk drive and is powered by intel corp. 's 286 microprocessor . that introduction comes only two weeks after compaq computer corp. , believing 0 it had a lead of three to six months on competitors , introduced the first u.s. notebook computer with such features . despite the inevitable comparison with compaq , however , texas instruments ' new notebook wo n't be a direct competitor . while compaq sells its machines to businesses through computer retailers , texas instruments will be selling most of its machines to the industrial market and to value-added resellers and original-equipment manufacturers . the introductions also mark texas instruments ' plunge back into a technology 0 it has all but ignored for the past several years . although the dallas-based computer giant introduced the first portable data terminal in 1971 -- a 38-pound monster -- and the world 's first microprocessor-based portable in 1976 , the only portable machines 0 it has introduced since the first part of the decade have been `` dumb '' terminals with limited on-board processing ability . it stopped selling a standard personal computer a while ago . now that is about to change , as texas instruments begins marketing two 14-pound laptop pcs with 20 megabyte and 40 megabyte hard drives . the laptops are not revolutionary and , indeed , are tardy in a market first opened by grid systems corp. , now a unit of tandy corp. , almost two years ago . but the notebook , with the more advanced microprocessor and hard disk , is more innovative . weighing 6.7 pounds with battery , the notebook measures 8.2 by 11.7 inches , has a 20-megabyte hard disk drive and boasts a backlit screen that is 22 % larger than compaq 's . its keyboard , according to industry consultants , is better than compaq 's , but its battery life of two to three hours is shorter . it does n't have an internal floppy disk drive , although a snap-on drive can be purchased separately . its greatest drawback may be its 3-inch thickness , big enough for one consultant to describe it as `` clunky . '' list prices on the heavier texas instrument laptops will be $ 4,999 for the ti model 25 , with a 20 megabyte disk drive , and $ 5,599 for the 40-megabyte model 45 . the notebook , the ti model 12 , will be priced at $ 4,199 .