kay peterson mounts her bicycle and grinds up yet another steep , rocky path seemingly suitable only for mountain goats . after a tortuous climb , she is rewarded by a picture-postcard vista : a glade of golden aspens under an azure indian-summer sky . this place is 12 miles into the back country -- a day-long trudge for a hiker , but reached by ms. peterson and six others in a mere two hours of pedaling fat-tired mountain bikes . `` this , '' says ms. peterson , `` is what it 's all about . '' twelve hundred miles away , rangers at a napa county , calif. , state park are among the many who do n't quite share the enthusiasm . this summer , speeding bikers were blamed for an accident in the napa county park , in which a horse -- spooked on a trail that was closed to bikers -- broke its leg . the animal had to be destroyed ; the bikers fled and were never found . in numerous parks near san francisco , rangers have been forced to close trails , set up speed traps and use radar guns to curb fast and reckless riding . they have even sent helicopters in pursuit of bikers after hikers and equestrians complained 0 they were being driven from trails . `` we were being overrun , '' says steve fiala , trails coordinator of the east bay regional park district . two years ago , the district decided to limit the bikes to fire roads in its 65,000 hilly acres . from about 200,000 six years ago , the number of mountain bikes in the u.s. is expected to grow to 10 million in 1990 . at least half that growth will have come in the past three years alone . the controversy kicked up by the proliferation of these all-terrain bicycles is one of the most divisive storms 0 to blow through the national conservation movement in recent memory . bikers -- many of them ardent environmentalists -- proclaim their sport an efficient , safe , fitness-promoting way 0 to get back to nature , while asserting a right , as taxpayers , to pedal on public lands . but the bikes ' burgeoning numbers , safety concerns and fear that they damage fragile landscapes have prompted pleas , from the sierras to the eastern seaboard , to ban them from the back country . key to the issue is that the bikes , in skillful hands , can go virtually anywhere , and in reckless hands can become vehicles of terror . an adept bicyclist can leap from a dead stop to the top of a picnic table without losing balance . such skills allow riders to fly down treacherous mountain grades at speeds of up to 40 miles an hour -- a thrill for the cyclist but a nightmare for unsuspecting hikers or equestrians . for harried public-land managers across the nation , the response is increasingly to shut the gates . the state of california , following the lead of some regional parks , recently adopted regulations that closed nearly all hiking paths in state parks to mountain bicycles . the move largely consigns them to roads used by motorized vehicles . most other states have enacted similar bans . the bikes are unwelcome on trails in national parks . even the u.s. forest service , whose lenient `` multiple-use '' philosophy permits motorized vehicles on thousands of miles of its trails across the u.s. , has begun to close some lands to the bikes , including major portions of the popular pacific crest trail , which stretches from california to canada . often these closings come after vigorous anti-bike lobbying by conservation organizations , the politically potent sierra club among them . sierra has been instrumental in securing a number of the california bans . it has been waging an all-out campaign to beat back a proposal , pushed by utah bike groups , to allow the cycles in federally designated wilderness areas , where they are now prohibited . yet sierra 's hard-line stance has created something of a rift in the organization , which estimates that 17 % of its 500,000 members own mountain bikes . pressure from these members prompted the club recently to soften its anti-bike rhetoric ; it no longer , for example , lumps the bikes into the same category as motorcycles and other terrain-marring off-road vehicles . but the club still insists that public lands ought to be closed to the bikes unless studies indicate 0 the bikes wo n't injure the environment or other users . `` i have a mountain bike , yet as a hiker i 've been run off the road by kids careening down a fire trail on them , '' says gene coan , an official at sierra 's headquarters in san francisco , echoing the concerns of many members . `` people who feel that cyclists should be banned from an area are n't looking at the whole picture , '' complains mark langton , associate editor of mountain and city biking magazine in canoga park , calif . mr. langton is among the legions of bikers who got their first taste of wilderness as hikers or backpackers . he says 0 fellow bikers show the same concern for the land that they demonstrated as hikers ; many are appalled that the conservation community would suddenly consider them the enemy . to fight back , activists such as mr. langton are forming groups 0 to lobby land managers over access issues and undertake education programs 0 to show that the bikes can responsibly share trails . mr. langton 's group , concerned off-road bicyclists association , mounted petition drives 0 to help keep open certain santa monica mountain trails designated for closing . biking groups in montana , idaho , michigan and massachusetts have won similar concessions , says 0 tim blumenthal , mountain bike editor of bicycling magazine . these groups have been trying to improve the mountain biker 's image ; in the san francisco-area park district where a ranger was clobbered by a cyclist this summer bikers have formed a volunteer patrol 0 to help rangers enforce regulations , and to school riders in proper trail etiquette . even staunch anti-bike sierra members concede that 10 % of all riders cause most of the problems . while some are renegade riders who simply scorn regulations , much bad riding simply reflects ignorance that can be corrected through `` education and peer pressure , '' says jim hasenauer , a director of the international mountain biking association . `` i think 0 we 're making progress . '' few would have foreseen such a furor when , a decade ago , some marin county bicycle enthusiasts created a hybrid bike using fat tires , lightweight metallurgy and multi-gear technology . they wanted a machine that would allow them to pedal into rugged terrain then inaccessible to cycles . they got a machine more responsive , more stable and in many ways easier 0 to ride than the thin-tired racing bikes that then were the rage . when the bikes first entered mass production in 1981 , they were dismissed as a fad . last year , 25 % of the 10 million bicycles sold in the u.s. were mountain bikes . in california , a bellwether market , they accounted for more than 80 % of all bike sales . the majority of the bikes never even make it into the high country . city dwellers love them because they shift smoothly in traffic , bounce easily over curbs and roll through road glass with far fewer flat tires than racing bikes . crested butte , population 1,200 , is a bastion of the sport . by one estimate , everyone here under 50 owns at least one bike . the town is home to the mountain bike hall of fame and it hosts the annual fat tire bike week . this summer , the jamboree attracted more visitors than the busiest week of the town 's winter ski season . david lindsey , chairman of the fat tire bike celebration , muses that the bike 's popularity may be a combination of technology and nostalgia . `` the mountain bike feels as comfortable as the ` paperboy ' bike 0 you had as a kid , but it can do so much more , '' he says .