polaroid corp. 's patent-infringement damages case against eastman kodak co. , one of the highest stakes corporate trials ever , is getting scant attention on wall street . after 78 days of mind-numbing testimony in federal court in boston , the trial is being all but ignored by analysts and patent attorneys . most have read the pre-trial documents , however , and estimate 0 kodak will be ordered to pay $ 1 billion to $ 1.5 billion for infringing on seven polaroid patents . that may be the largest patent award ever , but it is well below the $ 12 billion 0 polaroid seeks . the highest patent damage award to date was in 1986 , when smith international inc. was ordered to pay $ 205 million to baker hughes inc. for infringing on a patent on an oil drilling bit seal . the two companies later agreed to settle for $ 95 million . few analysts think 0 it is worth their time to slog through the polaroid trial testimony . `` it 's like panning for gold outside of grand central station . you might find something , but the chances are low , '' said michael ellman , an analyst at wertheim schroder & co . and eugene glazer , an analyst at dean witter reynolds inc. , said : `` if you hired an attorney 0 to be there all the time and give you a -lrb- prediction -rrb- of the eventual award , i would be willing to bet that he would be off '' by a lot . a 75-day trial in the early 1980s determined that kodak , based in rochester , n.y. , infringed on patents of polaroid , of cambridge , mass . the main issues remaining are how to calculate damages and whether the infringement was `` willful and deliberate . '' if so , the damages could be tripled . two analysts who have read the transcripts , david nelson of shearson lehman hutton inc. and calvert d. crary , a litigation analyst at labe , simpson & co. , think 0 judge a. david mazzone will decide in kodak 's favor on the `` willful and deliberate '' issue . mr. crary said 0 testimony by kodak 's patent counsel , francis t. carr of kenyon & kenyon , showed that `` he worked with kodak continuously from the outset of the project '' in an effort to avoid infringement . `` carr told kodak on many occasions to avoid various features because of polaroid 's patent positions , '' and kodak followed his advice in every instance , mr. crary said . but irving kayton , a patent expert at george mason university school of law who is familiar with the case , said 0 the fact that seven patents were infringed `` suggests 0 that infringement was willful . it 's difficult to be that consistently wrong . '' observers also wonder whether judge mazzone will use the lost-profits method of determining damages , which polaroid favors because it would result in a larger award , or the reasonable royalty method . polaroid claims 0 it could have manufactured and sold all the instant cameras and film sold by kodak if kodak had n't entered the market . moreover , polaroid contends 0 it could have sold them at a higher price -- and thus made higher profits -- because it would n't have been forced to match kodak 's lower prices . each side has called a harvard business school professor 0 to testify on that issue . kodak hired robert buzzell and polaroid brought in robert j. dolan . `` there 's nothing that says that people at harvard business school have to agree with each other , '' said mr. buzzell . testimony is expected to continue until early december . a decision is n't expected until some time next year .