program traders were buying and selling at full steam monday , the first trading session after the stock market 's 190.58-point plunge friday . they accounted for a hefty 16 % of new york stock exchange volume monday , the fourth busiest session ever . on friday , 13 % of volume was in computer-guided program trades . in august , by contrast , program trading averaged 10.3 % of daily big board turnover . program traders were publicly castigated following the 508-point crash oct. 19 , 1987 , and a number of brokerage firms pulled back from using this strategy for a while . but as the outcry faded by the spring of 1988 , they resumed . some observers thought that after friday 's sharp drop , the firms would rein in their program traders to avoid stoking more controversy . but the statistics released yesterday show 0 the firms did nothing of the sort . one reason , they said 0 , was that the official reports on the 1987 crash exonerated program trading as a cause . stock-index arbitrage is the most controversial form of program trading because it accelerates market moves , if not actually causing them . in it , traders buy or sell stocks and offset those positions in stock-index futures contracts to profit from fleeting price discrepancies . under the exchange 's definitions , program trading also describes a number of other strategies that , in the opinion of some traders , do n't cause big swings in the market . the big board 's disclosure of program trading activity on these two days was unusual . though it collects such data daily , its monthly reports on program trading usually come out about three weeks after each month ends . the september figures are due to be released this week . the big board declined to name the wall street firms involved in the activity friday and monday , or the type of strategies used . but traders on the exchange floor , who can observe the computer-guided trading activity on monitor screens , said 0 most of the top program-trading firms were active both days . through august , the top five program trading firms in volume were morgan stanley & co. , kidder , peabody & co. , merrill lynch & co. , painewebber group inc. and salomon brothers inc . though brokerage officials defended their use of program trading , one sign of what an issue it remains was that few executives would comment on the record . besides reciting the pardon for program trading contained in the brady commission report , they said 0 stock-index arbitrage was actually needed monday to restore the markets ' equilibrium . on friday , the stock-index futures market was unhinged from the stock market when the chicago mercantile exchange halted trading in standard & poor 's 500 futures contract -- a `` circuit breaker '' procedure instituted after the 1987 crash and implemented for the first time . futures trading resumed a half-hour later , but the session ended shortly thereafter , leaving the stock market set up for more sell programs , traders said 0 . by monday morning , they said 0 , stock-index arbitrage sell programs helped re-establish the link between stocks and futures . but stunning volatility was produced in the process . the dow jones industrial average plunged a breathtaking 63.52 points in the first 40 minutes of trading monday as stock-index arbitrage sell programs kicked in . at about 10:10 a.m. edt , the market abruptly turned upward on stock-index arbitrage buy programs . by day 's end , the dow industrials had rebounded 88.12 points , or nearly half of friday 's drop .