ford motor co. 's merkur , the company 's first new car franchise in the u.s. since the edsel was unveiled in 1957 , now will share edsel 's fate . ford said yesterday 0 it will halt imports of the merkur scorpio , a $ 28,000 luxury sedan built by ford of europe in west germany . the cars are sold under a separate franchise with its own sign in front of lincoln-mercury dealers -- as opposed to new models such as taurus or escort , which are sold under existing ford divisions . the move to halt imports -- announced 29 years and 11 months to the day after henry ford ii declared that the edsel division and its gawky car would be scrapped -- kills the four-year-old merkur brand in the u.s. market . it will continue to be sold in the european market . merkur 's death is n't nearly as costly to ford as was the edsel debacle , because merkur was a relatively low-budget project with limited sales goals . still , merkur 's demise is a setback for ford at a time when the company 's image as the u.s. auto maker with the golden touch is showing signs of strain . the no. 2 auto maker 's new thunderbird and mercury cougar models have n't met sales expectations in the year since they were introduced , and ford 's trucks are losing ground to their gm rivals . this fall , ford introduced only one new product : a restyled version of its hulking lincoln town car luxury model . the demise of merkur -lrb- pronounced mare-coor -rrb- comes after a september in which 670 merkur dealers managed to sell only 93 scorpios . total merkur sales for the first nine months dropped 46 % from a year ago to just 6,320 cars . merkur is n't the only european luxury brand having problems in the u.s. . the japanese assault on the luxury market is rapidly overshadowing such european makes as audi and saab , which at least have clear brand images . merkur , as an import on domestic car lots , suffered from the same sort of image confusion that is hobbling sales of imports at general motors corp. and chrysler corp . merkur was originally aimed at enticing into lincoln-mercury dealerships the kind of young , affluent buyers who would n't be caught dead in a town car -- a vehicle so bargelike that ford is staging a press event next month linking the town car 's launch to the commissioning of a new aircraft carrier in norfolk , va . but the brand had trouble from the start . the first merkur , the xr4ti , went on sale in early 1985 . the sporty coupe foundered in part because american buyers did n't go for the car 's unusual double-wing rear spoiler . in may 1987 , ford began importing the scorpio sedan from west germany 0 to sell next to a redesigned xr4ti in showrooms . ford officials said 0 they expected 0 the two merkurs would sell about 15,000 cars a year , and in 1988 they reached that goal , as sales hit 15,261 cars . it was downhill from there , however . one major factor was the decline of the dollar against the mark , which began less than a year after merkur 's 1985 launch . as the west german currency rose , so did merkur prices . the merkur cars also suffered from spotty quality , some dealers say 0 . `` it was like a comedy of errors , '' says martin j. `` hoot '' mcinerney , a big dealer whose star lincoln-mercury-merkur operation in southfield , mich. , sold more xr4ti 's than any other dealership . but by the third quarter of 1988 , scorpios had a high satisfaction rating in internal ford studies , a spokesman said 0 . apparently , however , the improvement came too late . last fall , ford announced 0 it would discontinue the xr4ti in the u.s. at the end of the 1989 model year . ford said then 0 it would keep the scorpio . this year , scorpio sales plummeted , and at the current sales pace it would take ford 242 days to sell off the current scorpio inventory of about 4,600 cars .