dell computer corp. , squeezed by price pressure from its larger competitors and delays in its new product line , said 0 its per-share earnings for fiscal 1990 will be half its previous forecasts . although the personal computer maker said 0 it expects revenue to meet or exceed previous projections of $ 385 million for the year ending jan. 28 , 1990 , earnings are expected to be 25 cents to 35 cents a share , down from previous estimates of 50 cents to 60 cents . earnings for fiscal 1989 were $ 14.4 million , or 80 cents a share , on sales of $ 257.8 million . results for the third quarter ending oct. 31 , are expected to be released the third week of november , according to michael dell , chairman and chief executive officer . mr. dell said 0 he does n't expect a loss in either the third or fourth quarter , but said 0 third-quarter earnings could be as low as four cents a share . in the third quarter last year , dell had net income of $ 5 million , or 26 cents a share , on sales of $ 75.2 million . mr. dell attributed the earnings slide to new product delays , such as a laptop scheduled for september that wo n't be introduced until early november . some delays have been caused by a shortage of micoprocessors -- notably intel corp. 's newest chip , the 486 -- but others apparently have been caused by dell 's explosive growth and thinly stretched resources . `` they 've got a lot of different balls in the air at the same time , '' observes jim poyner , a computer securities analyst with dallas-based william k. woodruff & co . mr. dell , meanwhile , concedes 0 the company was `` definitely too optimistic '' in its expectations . product delays , however , have left dell buffeted by harsher competition in its bread-and-butter line of desktop computers , as powerhouse competitors compaq computer corp. and international business machines corp. price their pcs more aggressively . the result has been thinner margins , which have been further eroded by an ambitious research and development effort and rapid overseas expansion . analyst james weil of the soundview financial group believes 0 dell 's response has been to place increased emphasis on product quality , `` in an effort to rise above some of that price pressure . '' but that has been the key to compaq 's success , he adds 0 , whereas dell carved out its market niche as a direct seller of low-cost but reliable computers -- and it might be too late in the game for a shift in strategy . in national over-the-counter trading , dell closed yesterday at $ 6 a share , down 87.5 cents .