the soviet state bank announced a 90 % devaluation of the ruble against the dollar for private transactions , in an apparent attempt to curb the nation 's rapidly growing black market for hard currency . the measure , which will take effect next wednesday , will create a two-tier exchange rate . commercial transactions will continue to be based on the official rate of about 0.63 rubles to the dollar . but for soviet citizens who travel abroad for business or tourism , the rate will jump to 6.26 rubles to the dollar . tass news agency said 0 the devaluation also will apply to foreigners ' transactions . but it did n't elaborate , and it remains unclear how far western tourists and foreigners living in moscow will be allowed to benefit from the sweeping rate cut . the current ruble rate has long been out of line with the black market . as soviet leader mikhail gorbachev has opened up the country to foreign trade , the discrepancy has become ever greater . western tourists in the soviet union who could exchange a dollar -- albeit illegally -- for about four rubles a year ago are now being offered 15 rubles or more . even at such rates , black marketeers have been able to make big profits because of the dire shortage of consumer goods here . they use dollars to buy western items such as video recorders and personal computers and then sell them at a huge mark-up . the going rate for a small personal computer that costs about $ 2,000 in the west is anywhere from 50,000 to 100,000 rubles . even a pack of 20 western cigarettes can fetch 20 rubles or more . with more than 300 billion rubles in savings accounts and little 0 to spend them on , soviet consumers grumble at the exorbitant black-market prices for such goods -- but they buy them anyway . moscow has already tacitly admitted that the ruble is n't worth much , announcing in august that it will pay soviet farmers in hard currency for grain and other produce that they grow in excess of state-plan quotas . `` the absurdity of the official rate should seem obvious to everyone , '' the afternoon newspaper izvestia wrote in a brief commentary on the devaluation . the state bank 's move is part of a drive to iron out exchange-rate discrepancies as moscow moves toward making the ruble convertible -- a goal that soviet bankers and economists say 0 is still far away . rumors of an impending devaluation have been circulating in moscow for weeks , but the size of the cut took many western bankers by surprise . `` it 's much bigger than we expected , '' said one german banker , who asked not to be named . the next step , which could have a larger effect on businesses , will come early next month , when the bank for foreign economic affairs is to hold its first auction of foreign currency . soviet companies needing western currencies to buy equipment and supplies abroad will be able to submit bids . plans for the auction , which was supposed to take place last spring and become a regular event , have been thwarted by a lack of hard currency . soviet firms that hold some are unwilling to part with it , and joint ventures are n't yet allowed to participate . the kremlin also has been unwilling to provide hard currency for the auction , using a lot of it instead to finance emergency imports of consumer goods . if foreign tourists and businesses could sell their currencies freely at the new , better exchange rate , that would enable the state bank to increase its dollar reserves and would mop up some of the excess rubles in the economy at the same time . but the amounts 0 they exchange may be limited ; most soviet hotels , for example , demand payment in hard currency from western visitors . unless other rules are changed , the devaluation could cause difficulties for the people 0 it is primarily meant to help : soviets who travel abroad . over the past three years , thousands of people here have made use of looser travel restrictions to get their first taste of life abroad . but under current rules , they are allowed to change just 200 rubles into dollars and other currencies for each trip . at the new rate , that would give them about $ 30 0 to travel on . it is n't yet clear whether the 200-ruble limit will be lifted . if it is n't , the black market for dollars probably will continue to thrive .