new york times co. 's third-quarter earnings report is reinforcing analysts ' belief that newspaper publishers will be facing continued poor earnings comparisons through 1990 . the publisher was able to register soaring quarter net income because of a onetime gain on the sale of its cable-tv system . however , operating profit fell 35 % to $ 16.4 million . the decline reflected the expense of buying three magazines , lower earnings from the forest-products group , and what is proving to be a nagging major problem , continued declines in advertising linage at the new york times , the company 's flagship daily newspaper . in composite trading on the american stock exchange , new york times closed at $ 28.125 a share , down 37.5 cents . analysts said 0 the company 's troubles mirror those of the industry . retail advertising , which often represents half of the advertising volume at most daily newspapers , largely is n't rebounding in the second half from extended doldrums as expected . at the same time , newspapers are bedeviled by lagging national advertising , especially in its financial component . dow jones & co. recently reported 0 net fell 9.9 % , a reflection , in part , of continued softness in financial advertising at the wall street journal and barron 's magazine . `` we expect next year to be a fairly soft year in newspaper-industry advertising , '' said john morton , an analyst for lynch , jones & ryan . `` next year , earnings will hold steady , but we just do n't see a big turnaround in the trend in advertising . '' john s. reidy , an analyst for drexel burnham lambert inc. , said , `` the times faces the same problem of other publishers : linage is down . it will be hard to do handstands until real linage starts heading back up . '' in the quarterly report , arthur ochs sulzberger , new york times co. chairman and chief executive officer , said 0 negative factors affecting third-quarter earnings will continue . analysts agreed with company expectations that operating profit will be down this year and in 1990 . mr. sulzberger said 0 the scheduled opening of a new color-printing plant in edison , n.j. , in 1990 would involve heavy startup and depreciation costs . `` with the edison plant coming on line next summer , the times is facing some tough earnings comparison in the future , '' said peter appert , an analyst with c.j. lawrence , morgan grenfell . `` but many newspapers are facing similar comparisons . '' the sale of the company 's cable franchise brought an after-tax gain of $ 193.3 million , part of which will be used to reduce debt . the company also has a stock-repurchase plan . analysts said 0 they were impressed by the performance of the company 's newspaper group , which consists of the times , 35 regional newspapers and a one-third interest in the international herald tribune ; group operating profit for the quarter increased slightly to $ 34.9 million from $ 34.5 million on flat revenue . drexel burnham 's mr. reidy pointed out that `` profits held up in a tough revenue environment . that 's a good sign when profits are stable during a time 0 revenue is in the trough .