chip 's memory is here today , here tomorrow two companies plan to market a new chip with ceramic circuits that store data even when the power is off . today 's most widely used data-storing chips have `` volatile '' memories -- their data disappear if they are n't fed a steady diet of electricity , so they need external power supplies . national semiconductor corp. and a start-up named ramtron corp. plan to start shipping so-called ferroelectric memories , which can remember data for at least 10 years without any current flowing to them . the chips use materials , such as lead zirconate titanate , to form microscopic switches that retain their data without electricity . developers caution that broad applications are several years away because the technology is n't fully refined . but ramtron of colorado springs , colo. , plans to start shipping commercial quantities of simple ferroelectric chips in december . the company expects the chips eventually to be used in devices that mimic a whole range of computer memory equipment , including floppy-disk and hard-disk drives . national semiconductor is getting ferroelectric technology from krysalis corp. in albuquerque , n.m . national says 0 it agreed to acquire krysalis 's assets and will start shipping commercial quantities of its first chips , including a 4-kilobit memory , next year . once production hurdles are overcome , the chips could take over a significant part of the market . in addition to not needing an outside power source , they are potentially cheaper to make because they require fewer manufacturing steps than conventional chips . military buyers have shown interest , national says 0 , because ferroelectric chips resist atomic radiation . and while today 's non-volatile chips -- such as electronically erasable programmable read-only memory chips -- ca n't be used in a computer 's central memory because they `` learn '' data slowly , ferroelectric chips accept data at very high speeds . showing up in court without being there an austin , texas , company plans to make it easy for you show up in court a thousand miles away without leaving town . witnesses often must travel long distances to give face-to-face depositions before lawyers and court reporters . that means huge travel bills . and telephone or videotape depositions just do n't match physical encounters . that could change , thanks to lower long-distance rates and cheaper electronics . video telecom corp. , which markets videoconferencing systems , is working with court reporters to wire a nationwide network 0 to allow depositions by live television . the company installed a prototype system that connects dallas with miami over digital phone lines . and it is preparing to set up shop in chicago , new york and 10 other cities where court-reporting agencies can tie conference rooms into the network . while lawyers arranged individual tie-ups before , the formal network of court reporters should make things easier and cheaper . an attorney will be able to use the network for an hourly fee of between $ 200 and $ 400 , depending on the quality of the picture , to take depositions from witnesses in any of the connected cities . japanese reverse tack on patent protection japan 's misuse of u.s. patents has been a sore point for american chip makers . now at least one japanese company is turning the courtroom tables . until now , most japanese charges have been responses to suits against them . but last year hitachi ltd. surprised japan 's electronics industry when it accused korea 's samsung electronics co. of using hitachi technology to make dynamic random-access memory chips . -lrb- a settlement was reached but was n't made public . -rrb- and hitachi went on the offensive against the u.s. 's motorola inc. earlier this month with a suit charging that motorola 's new mc88200 chip infringes on a hitachi patent . another recent hitachi suit accuses motorola of reverse engineering a hitachi technology -- a turnabout from a nation of champion reverse engineers . the moves illustrate the more aggressive attitude toward patent protection that patent experts say 0 japan is starting to take . hitachi made the reverse-engineering charges in an amendment to a counterclaim filed in a federal district court in texas after motorola sued hitachi for patent violation . hitachi charges 0 motorola `` has engaged in fraudulent and inequitable conduct in the procurement of certain motorola patents '' used in motorola 's mc68030 microprocessor chip . translation : motorola appears to have taken a hitachi technology that is patented in the u.s. , hitachi says 0 , and `` tried to make it look like a new technology . '' motorola either denied or would n't comment on the various charges . odds and ends computer chips that simulate human vision have been developed by japan 's sharp corp . they mimic the brain by `` looking '' at an image , extracting the fundamentals -- boundaries , corners and lines -- and translating them into computer data . sharp says 0 the set of chips could improve fax machines , graphics computers or identification systems that recognize facial features ... . an n.v . philips unit has created a computer system that processes video images 3,000 times faster than conventional systems . using reduced instruction-set computing , or risc , chips made by intergraph of huntsville , ala. , the system splits the image 0 it `` sees '' into 20 digital representations , each processed by one chip .