the chicago mercantile exchange said 0 it plans to institute an additional `` circuit breaker '' aimed at stemming market slides . separately , john phelan told a closed house subcommittee meeting in washington that he would support securities and exchange commission halts of program trading during market emergencies . but the new york stock exchange chairman said 0 he does n't support reinstating a `` collar '' on program trading , arguing that firms could get around such a limit . the chicago merc said 0 a new one-hour price limit would take effect in its standard & poor 's 500 stock-index futures pit once s&p 500 futures fell 20 index points -- the equivalent of about a 150-point drop in the dow jones industrial average . if the 20-point limit is triggered after 1:30 p.m . chicago time , it would remain in effect until the normal close of trading at 3:15 p.m . with the limit in effect , members would be able to execute trades at the limit price or at higher prices , but not below it . the exchange said 0 it decided 0 a new circuit breaker was needed following a review of the tumultuous trading in stocks and stock-index futures on friday oct. 13 , when the dow jones industrials plunged 190 points and stock-index futures prices skidded as well . late that afternoon the s&p 500 stock-index futures contract fell a total of 30 index points , hitting a merc circuit breaker limit that remained in effect for the rest of the trading session . the merc said that its existing 30-minute , 12-point limit on s&p 500 stock-index futures trading -lrb- equal to about 100 points on the dow jones industrials -rrb- , which was triggered oct. 13 , will remain in effect . leo melamed , merc executive committee chairman , said that the 12-point limit appeared to lessen the selling panic oct. 13 . but when the contract reopened , the subsequent flood of sell orders that quickly knocked the contract down to the 30-point limit indicated that the intermediate limit of 20 points was needed to help keep stock and stock-index futures prices synchronized . several traders maintained that the merc 's 12-point circuit-breaker aggravated the market slide oct. 13 by directing additional selling pressure to the floor of the new york stock exchange . all of the changes require regulatory approval , which is expected shortly . the exchange also said that the 30-point circuit breaker , which currently provides only a one-hour respite during market sell-offs , will become the maximum one-day limit for the s&p 500 stock-index futures contract ; the one-day limit now is 50 index points . a final modification was made to the five-point opening limit for the contract . the merc said 0 that five-point limit will remain in effect for the first 10 minutes of trading . the limit lapses under current exchange rules if contracts trade above the limit price during the opening 10 minutes of trading . in washington , house aides said 0 mr. phelan told congressmen that the collar , which banned program trades through the big board 's computer when the dow jones industrial average moved 50 points , did n't work well . he said that firms could get around the collar by executing trades manually . in a post-hearing news conference , mr. phelan , who has publicly expressed concern about market volatility , said 0 he told the house finance and telecommunications subcommittee that he would support the program-trading halt proposal `` providing 0 the sec would be comfortable with the language '' in a bill . the program-trading issue is heating up on capitol hill as it is on wall street , and several legislators want to grant the sec the power to shut off the programs when trading becomes too volatile . sec chairman richard breeden has said 0 he would be willing to consider circuit breakers that have preset trigger points , but he does n't want discretionary power to stop programs . a house aide suggested that mr. phelan was so `` vague and mushy '' that it was the kind of meeting where people of all viewpoints could `` come out feeling good . '' at one point , mr. phelan angered the subcommittee 's chairman , rep. edward markey -lrb- d. , mass. -rrb- , by not going much beyond what already had been reported in the morning newspapers . `` markey said 0 we could have done this in public '' because so little sensitive information was disclosed , the aide said 0 . mr. phelan then responded that he would have been happy just writing a report to the panel , the aide added 0 . at another point during the hearing , rep. markey asked mr. phelan what would be discussed at a new york exchange board meeting today . mr. phelan said 0 the big board is likely to study the program-trading issue . that response annoyed rep. markey , house aides said 0 , and the congressman snapped back that there had been enough studies of the issue and that it was time for action on the matter . fifteen of the 26 subcommittee members attended the hearing , most notably rep. john dingell -lrb- d. , mich. -rrb- , the full house energy and commerce committee chairman , who has been willing to let mr. markey carry the legislation in recent months . mr. dingell expressed concern , sources said 0 , about jurisdictional problems in regulating program trading , which uses futures to offset stock trades . the futures industry is regulated by the commodity futures trading commission , which reports to the agriculture committees in both houses .