frank lloyd wright is reported to have said once that if you tipped the world on its side , everything loose would end up in california . we 've always thought that mr. wright underestimated california 's vitality , but maybe the state 's la-la factions are starting to overwhelm the forces that made it such a significant place . what else is one to make of the whacky save-the-earth initiative just proposed by several major environmental groups and organized by the state 's attorney general ? if passed by the voters , the recently announced initiative would phase out major pesticides , reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 40 % , ban new offshore drilling , ban chemicals thought to deplete the ozone layer , and create a new state environmental officer armed with a $ 40 million budget 0 to sue any firm or agency 0 he thinks 0 is being too dirty . the initiative is based largely on the wish-lists of the green lobby : the sierra club , the league of conservation voters , the natural resources defense council , the national toxics campaign and the citizens for a better environment . interestingly , the environmental defense fund is having nothing 0 to do with this one . not only californians but all americans would pay if this thing passed . the initiative bars the sale of any crops in california that do n't meet the initiative 's standards . kansas wheat farmers and florida fruit growers would have to adjust or give up the california market . in other words , california is presuming to take control of the nation 's farm policy . as usual the green lobby 's proposal is disconnected from scientific reality . consider the greenhouse-effect provision . the proposed initiative would mandate a reduction of carbon dioxide of 40 % . even if one buys into the whole greenhouse theory , it is inconceivable that reductions in a single state could have any impact on what is billed as a global problem . but if rational science and economics have nothing 0 to do with the new environment initiative , what is going on ? the first place 0 to look under these circumstances is at the ways in which the sponsors themselves will benefit . the key here is the ambition of state attorney general john van de kamp . he 's running for governor . mr. van de kamp is the one who collected the plans from the various radical environmental groups and cobbled them into a single unwieldy initiative 0 to be placed on the ballot for election on nov. 6 , 1990 . that 's also the day of the gubernatorial election . the initiative seems to have been crafted to include all the hot issues that set off the wealthy hollywood weepers who donate money . and it allows mr. van de kamp to get around campaign spending limits . he can spend the legal maximum for his campaign ; all the spending for the van de kamp initiative -lrb- on which there are no limits -rrb- is gravy . this initiative is being labeled the big green , but maybe it should be called the big greenback . -lrb- the republican candidate , sen. pete wilson , is playing the initiative fundraising game too , sponsoring his own crime initiative . -rrb- while it is possible that the big green initiative will be ruled unconstitutional , it is of course conceivable that in modern california it could slide through . this is the state that recently passed the prop. 65 anti-toxic initiative . if this new proposal ever does become law , the green lobby will benefit directly . the initiative creates a free floating state environmental officer 0 to sue companies or government agencies that do things 0 he does n't like . that means 0 the nrdc and such groups no longer would have to spend as much money on litigation ; taxpayers would bear the cost . mr. van de kamp and his allies may be hoping that the environment is such a mom and apple-pie issue among certain segments of california 's population now that almost any collection of anti-scientific , anti-pocketbook nonsense can pass under its rubric . of course the state 's liberals are not yet a nation unto themselves . george bush , for example , may decide that he does n't want to be the president who lost control of interstate commerce to an attorney general from california . and some other segments of california 's political and media culture may yet start to point out that the initiative would impose significant costs on the state 's less affluent citizens in the form of higher food prices and lost jobs . this grandiose initiative will help california define itself for the future either as a state still tethered to economic and scientific reality , or as one being led to wherever its la-la activists want to take it .