british airways plc , a crucial participant in the proposed buy-out of ual corp. , washed its hands of the current efforts to revive a bid for the parent of united airlines . specifically , the british carrier said 0 it currently has no plans to participate in any new offer for ual . in addition , british air officially withdrew its support for the previous $ 300-a-share bid in a terse statement that said `` the original deal is closed . '' company officials said later that british airways believes 0 its involvement in the ual buy-out ended last friday when the buy-out group , which also includes ual 's management and pilot union , failed to obtain financing for the $ 6.79 billion transaction . the carrier stopped short of saying 0 it would n't at some point reconsider participating in any new bid for ual . however , company officials said 0 they plan to take `` no initiatives '' to resurrect the transaction , and `` are n't aware '' of any restructured bid in the making . collectively , the statements raised questions about whether a new bid for ual will ever get off the ground . the transaction has had a series of setbacks since the financing problems became known last friday , with no signs or statements from the buy-out group 0 to indicate that any progress has taken place . however , in response to the british air decision , united 's pilot union vowed to continue efforts to revive the buy-out . pilot union chairman frederick c. dubinsky said 0 advisers to ual management and the union will begin meeting in new york today and will work through the weekend to devise a new proposal 0 to present to ual 's board `` at the earliest time possible . '' pilot union advisers appeared confident that a new bid could go forward even without british air 's participation . ual declined to comment on british air 's statement . ual chairman stephen m. wolf , who is leading the management end of the buy-out , has n't provided investors with any assurances about the prospect of a new deal . in another setback yesterday , united 's machinist union asked the treasury department to investigate whether certain aspects of the original buy-out proposal violated tax laws . in an effort to derail the buy-out , the union has already called for investigations by the securities and exchange commission , transportation department and labor department . but there was one bright spot yesterday . the united flight-attendants union agreed to negotiations that could lead to the flight attendants contributing concessions to a revived bid in exchange for an ownership stake . the pilot union , the only one 0 to support the buy-out thus far , said 0 the flight attendants ' decision `` enforces our belief that an all-employee owned airline is practical and achievable . '' still , without the assurance of british airways ' financial backing , it will be tougher for the buy-out group to convince already-reluctant banks to make loan commitments for a revised bid , especially since british air 's original investment represented 78 % of the cash equity contribution for the bid . under the previous plan , british air would have received a 15 % stake in ual in exchange for a $ 750 million equity investment , with a 75 % stake going to ual employees and 10 % to ual management . british air officials said 0 the airline 's chairman , lord king , was concerned about news reports indicating that british air might be willing to participate in a bid that included a lower purchase price and better investment terms for the british carrier . the previous reports were based on remarks by british air 's chief financial officer , derek stevens , who said 0 any revised bid would have to include a lower purchase price to reflect the sharp drop in ual 's stock in the past week . ual stock dropped $ 1.625 yesterday to $ 190.125 on volume of 923,500 shares in composite trading on the new york stock exchange . ual declined to comment on british air 's statement . in an interview wednesday with dow jones professional investor report , mr. stevens said , `` we 're in no way committed to a deal going through at all . we 're not rushing into anything . we do n't want to be party to a second rejection . '' indeed , british air seemed to be distancing itself from the troubled transaction early in an effort to avoid any further embarrassment . the original transaction fell through on the same day 0 british air shareholders approved the plan at a special meeting after the british succeeded in arranging the financing for its equity contribution . the carrier also seemed eager to place blame on its american counterparts . `` the -lcb- buy-out -rcb- consortium ceased to exist because our american partners were not capable of organizing the financing , '' a british air spokesman said . british airways may have begun to have second thoughts about the transaction after the transportation department forced northwest 's airlines ' new owners to restructure the equity contribution of klm royal dutch airlines in that carrier . most of the department 's statements since the northwest transaction indicated 0 it planned to curtail foreign ownership stakes in u.s. carriers . even before british air 's announcement , pilot union leaders had been meeting in chicago yesterday to consider their options . the leaders expressed support for trying to revive the bid following a briefing wednesday by the union 's advisers , lazard freres & co. and paul , weiss , rifkind wharton & garrison . they also unanimously re-elected mr. dubinsky , the union chairman who has led the pilots ' 2 1\/2-year fight to take control of the airline . ual 's advisers have indicated previously that it may take a while to come forward with a revised plan since they want to have firm bank commitments before launching a new bid . they have maintained that banks remain interested in financing the transaction . the buy-out fell through after citicorp and chase manhattan corp. , the lead banks in the transaction , failed to obtain $ 7.2 billion in financing needed for the plan .