the sales pitch could n't sound better . first , there 's the name : `` asset-backed securities . '' better than all those offers 0 you get to buy securities backed by nothing . and there 's more . the assets backing the securities come from some of the country 's biggest -- and most secure -- institutions . most earn high ratings from credit agencies . their yields are higher than those of u.s. treasury issues . and the booming market has already attracted many of the nation 's biggest institutional investors . ready to jump ? well , think twice . the concept may be simple : take a bunch of loans , tie them up in one neat package , and sell pieces of the package to investors . but the simplicity may be misleading . skeptics say 0 the slightly higher returns are n't enough to compensate for the extra risk . they warn that asset-backed securities are only as good as the assets and credit backing that support them -- and those are hard 0 to evaluate . moreover , the securities were introduced only about 4 1\/2 years ago ; the biggest unknown is how they will fare in a recession . `` a lot of this stuff really is in untested waters , '' says owen carney , director of the investment securities division of the u.s. comptroller of the currency . `` we do n't know how this whole market will work in a serious economic downturn . '' such concerns , however , have n't stopped asset-backed securities from becoming one of wall street 's hottest new products . since the spring of 1985 , financial alchemists have transformed a wide variety of debt into these new securities . they have sold issues backed by car loans , boat loans and recreational-vehicle loans . they have offered bundles of homeequity loans , as well as packages of loans used to buy vacation time-shares . last year , there was an issue of `` death-backed bonds '' -- securities backed by loans to life-insurance policyholders . some predict 0 there will be `` third world bonds , '' backed by loans to brazil , argentina and other debt-ridden nations . and the biggest volume this year has been on securities backed by credit-card receivables , sometimes known as `` plastic bonds . '' `` this is the heyday of debt , '' says james grant , editor of grant 's interest rate observer , a newsletter . `` before the sun sets on the '80s , it seems 0 nothing will be left unhocked . '' the result is a $ 45 billion market , according to securities data co . that includes more than $ 9.5 billion issued through august of this year , up sharply from $ 6.5 billion in the comparable 1988 period -- and more than in all of 1987 . most issues have been sold to professional money managers , pension funds , bank trust departments and other institutions . but wealthy individuals also have been jumping in , and lately brokers have been pushing smaller investors into the asset-backed market . the entry fee is affordable : issues typically are sold in minimum denominations of $ 1,000 . `` we expect additional offerings '' of asset-backed securities targeted toward individual investors , says 0 bill addiss , a senior vice president at shearson lehman hutton inc . the process typically begins when an institution , such as citibank or sears , roebuck & co. , takes a pool of credit-card or other receivables and sells them to a specially created trust . the trust then issues securities -- generally due in five years or less -- that are underwritten by wall street brokerage firms and offered to investors . issues typically come with `` credit enhancements , '' such as a bank letter of credit , and thus have received high credit ratings . enthusiasts say 0 the booming market has opened up a valuable new source of funds to issuers , while providing a valuable new investment for individuals and institutions . asset-backed securities `` are an attractive investment compared to bank certificates of deposit or other corporate bonds , '' says 0 craig j. goldberg , managing director and head of the asset-backed securities group at merrill lynch capital markets . but skeptics question whether asset-backed bonds offer sufficient rewards 0 to compensate for the extra risks . consider a $ 500 million offering of 9 % securities issued last spring and backed by citibank credit-card receivables . the triple-a-rated issue offered a yield of only about 0.5 percentage point above four-year treasury issues . on a $ 10,000 investment , that 's a difference of only $ 50 a year . that kind of spread can be critical for money managers who buy bonds in large quantities and whose livelihood depends on outperforming the money manager across the street . but for individuals who buy much smaller amounts and care less about relative performance than in preserving what they have , that margin is meaningless . `` if you 're in the bond business playing the relative-performance derby , then even an extra 25 basis points -lrb- 0.25 percentage point -rrb- becomes an important consideration on a career basis , '' says mr. grant . `` but if you 're an individual investing money and trying to get it back again , then that is n't of overwhelming importance . '' moreover , the interest on asset-backed securities is fully taxable , while interest on treasury issues is tax-free at the state and local level . that 's why some investment managers , such as alex powers , a vice president of chase manhattan bank 's private banking division , do n't recommend most asset-backed issues for individuals in high-tax states , such as new york or california . but mr. powers has purchased asset-backed issues for individuals with tax-deferred accounts , such as retirement plans . he points out that institutions buying asset-backed issues in large quantities can earn higher spreads over treasurys than individuals buying smaller amounts . another concern is liquidity , or how easily a security can be converted into cash . the secondary , or resale , market for asset-backed securities is relatively new and much less active than for treasury issues . that could make it tricky for investors who need to sell their holdings quickly before the securities mature . that 's particularly true , analysts say 0 , for certain of the securities , such as those backed by time-share loans . `` you could see massive gyrations here because it 's such a thinly traded market , '' says jonathan s. paris , a vice president of european investors inc. , a new york investment-management firm . in addition , an investor who wants to know the daily value of treasury bonds , or corporate bonds traded on the new york stock exchange , can simply check newspaper listings . there are n't any such listings for asset-backed securities . evaluating asset-backed securities poses another problem . investors , for instance , may mistakenly assume that the bank or company that originally held the assets is guaranteeing the securities . it is n't . the front cover of the prospectus for the citibank credit-card receivables offering points out in bold capital letters that the certificates represent an interest only in the specially created trust and `` do not represent interests in or obligations of the banks , citibank n.a. , citicorp or any affiliate thereof . '' in other words , if there 's a problem , do n't expect citibank to come to the rescue . the prospectus also notes that the securities are not guaranteed by any government agency . that means 0 investors have to focus on the quality of the debt that lies beneath the securities , as well as on the credit enhancement for the issue and the credit ratings 0 the issue has received . that also is n't easy . take the `` credit enhancements , '' which typically include a bank letter of credit or insurance from a bond-insurance company . the letter of credit typically is not offered by the bank selling the assets 0 to back the securities . nor does it cover the entire portfolio . details of credit enhancements vary widely from issue to issue . still , they play a crucial role in winning top ratings for most asset-backed issues -- which in turn is why the yield above treasurys is so slim . but skeptics ask why you should bother buying this stuff when you can get only slightly lower yields on government-guaranteed paper . when you buy an asset-backed issue , you take the risk that a bank or an insurer could run into unexpected difficulties . if a bank 's credit rating was lowered because of , say , its loans to third world nations , that could also affect the ratings , liquidity and prices of the asset-backed issues that the bank supports . underwriters insist 0 these issues are constructed to withstand extremely tough economic conditions . but despite the credit enhancements , despite the high ratings , some money managers still worry that a recession could wreak havoc on the underlying assets . at a time when americans are leveraged to their eyeballs , asset-backed investors may be taking a heady gamble that consumers will be able to repay loans in hard times . at the very least , a recession would prompt investors to buy the highest-quality bonds 0 they can find -- that is , treasurys . that could widen the yield spread between treasurys and asset-backed securities , as well as make it tougher to unload the latter . but it could be much worse . some analysts are especially wary of credit-card issues . for one thing , credit-card loans are unsecured . in addition , they fear that banks have been overeager to issue cards to the public -- giving cards to too many big spenders who will default during a recession . `` a day of reckoning is coming where we think 0 the market will place a high premium on the highest-quality debt issues , and therefore we think 0 the best debt investment is u.s. government bonds , '' says craig corcoran of davis\/zweig futures inc. , an investment advisory firm . what about triple-a-rated asset-backed issues ? `` nope , we still say to stick with treasurys , '' mr. corcoran replies . ratings , he notes 0 , `` are subject to change . '' all this makes asset-backed securities seem too risky for many people . and it reminds raymond f. devoe jr. , a market strategist at legg mason wood walker inc. , of what he calls `` devoe 's unprovable but highly probable theory no. 1 : `` more money has been lost reaching for yield than in all the stock speculations , scams and frauds of all time . '' mr. herman is a staff reporter in the wall street journal 's new york bureau . volume of asset-backed securities issued annually \* principal amount \*\* as of august 30 \* principal amount source : securities data co .