in the second step of a reorganization that began earlier this year , boeing co. said 0 it will create a defense and space group 0 to consolidate several divisions . meanwhile , boeing officials and representatives of the machinists union met separately last night with a federal mediator in an attempt to break the month-old strike that has shut the aerospace giant 's assembly lines at a time when it has an $ 80 billion backlog of jetliner orders . the two sides were scheduled to meet with the mediator this morning . machinists already have rejected a package that would provide a 10 % pay raise plus bonuses over the three-year life of the contract . boeing has said repeatedly 0 it wo n't expand its offer and the machinists have responded that the offer is n't good enough . however , the resolve of some of the striking 57,000 machinists might be weakening . about 1,000 strikers signed petitions last week calling for boeing and machinists representatives to schedule new meetings . the two sides had n't met since oct. 18 . while boeing 's commercial business is booming , its military business is feeling the effects of a declining defense budget after a strong buildup during the reagan presidency . in may , the company consolidated its aerospace and electronics groups ; the new defense and space group will contain the aerospace and electronics division and advanced systems , both based in the seattle area ; boeing helicopters in philadelphia ; boeing military airplanes in wichita , kan. , and argosystems in sunnyvale , calif . b. dan pinick , president of boeing aerospace and electronics , will become president of the new group , which will become operational jan. 2 . in addition , boeing said 0 it also will reorganize all its work in wichita into military and commercial divisions . all of the changes will reduce its overhead and streamline operations , boeing said 0 . analysts agreed . `` it 's a further step to better returns in the hemorrhaging defense business , '' said steven binder , an analyst with bear , stearns & co. in new york . `` they had to do it . '' howard rubel , an analyst with c.j. lawrence , morgan grenfell inc. in new york , said 0 the shift reflects boeing confidence in mr. pinick , described by mr. rubel as an expert on doing business with the military . `` his side of the business has been successful in a tough environment , '' mr. rubel said .