two gunmen entered a maryland restaurant , ordered two employees to lie on the floor and shot them in the backs of their heads . the killers fled with less than $ 100 . describing this and other grisly killings , sen. strom thurmond -lrb- r. , s.c . -rrb- recently urged fellow lawmakers to revive a broad federal death penalty . `` the ultimate punishment , '' he declared , `` will protect the law-abiding from the vicious , cruel individuals who commit these crimes . '' there 's just one problem : the law that sen. thurmond is pushing would be irrelevant in the case of the maryland restaurant murders and almost all other killings . most murders are state crimes , so any federal capital-punishment law probably would turn out to be more symbolism than substance . yet the bill is riding high on the furor over drug trafficking . senate republicans , after repeatedly failing to attach death-penalty amendments to unrelated legislation , have finally gotten a full-blown death-penalty bill through committee . the democratic leadership agreed to allow a floor vote on the issue before the end of the year -- a debate certain to focus on the alleged racial inequality of death sentencing . even some democrats concede that there is probably a majority in the senate that favors some kind of broad capital-punishment measure . the pending bill , introduced by mr. thurmond , would revive the long-dormant federal death-penalty laws by instituting legal procedures required by the supreme court . in 1972 , the high court swept aside all capital-punishment laws -- federal and state alike -- as unconstitutional . but in 1976 , the court permitted resurrection of such laws , if they meet certain procedural requirements . for instance , juries would have to consider specific `` aggravating '' and `` mitigating '' factors before deciding whether to condemn someone to death . since that 1976 ruling , 37 states have reintroduced the death penalty . but congressional democrats have blocked the same from occurring at the federal level , with the exception of a 1988 law allowing capital punishment for certain drug-related homicides . the thurmond bill would establish a federally administered death sentence for 23 crimes , most of which were formerly punishable by death under federal statutes that the supreme court invalidated . among these crimes are murder on federal land , presidential assassination and espionage . the thurmond bill would also add five new crimes punishable by death , including murder for hire . -lrb- separately , the senate last week passed a bill permitting execution of terrorists who kill americans abroad . -rrb- amid the swirl of punitive rhetoric surrounding the issue , one critical question involves whether a federal death penalty , on top of existing state laws , would deter any would-be criminals . for one thing , it 's unlikely that many people would receive federal death sentences , let alone be executed . most of the crimes incorporated in the thurmond bill are exceedingly rare -- killing a supreme court justice , for instance , or deliberately causing a train wreck that results in a death . in fact , only 28 defendants would have been eligible for federal death sentences if the thurmond bill had been in effect in the past three years , according to a study by the senate judiciary committee 's democratic staff . the last federal execution before the supreme court 's 1972 ruling banning the death penalty took place in 1963 , meaning that the federal government did n't exercise its execution authority for eight years . `` in that sense , the whole debate is sort of a fraud , '' argues a democratic senate staff member . `` it 's distracting attention from serious issues , like how to make dea , fbi and customs work together '' on drug enforcement . republicans acknowledge that few people would be executed under the thurmond bill , but they contend 0 that is n't the point . `` many scholars are of the opinion that the mere existence of the penalty deters many people from the commission of capital crimes , '' says sen. orrin hatch -lrb- r. , utah -rrb- . executions , regardless of how frequently they occur , are also `` proper retribution '' for heinous crimes , mr. hatch argues 0 . thomas boyd , a senior justice department official , says 0 the new federal drug-related crimes punishable by death since last november may result in a jump in capital sentences , though that has n't happened so far . in addition to resuscitating the old issue of whether death sentences deter criminals , this bill has made race a major part of the death-penalty debate . before the bill left committee , sen. edward kennedy -lrb- d. , mass . -rrb- attached an amendment that would allow a defendant to escape from a death sentence in jurisdictions shown to have meted out executions in a racist manner . the amendment prompted an ironic protest from mr. thurmond , who complained that it would `` kill '' capital punishment . a large number of studies suggest that state judges and juries have imposed the penalty in a racially discriminatory fashion . and the kennedy amendment would invade not only federal but state sentencings , in two important ways . it would allow all defendants to introduce statistical evidence showing racially disproportionate application of the death penalty in the past . and it would shift the burden to prosecutors to disprove that discrimination caused any statistical racial disparities . `` that burden is very difficult , if not impossible , 0 to meet , '' says mr. boyd . `` how do you prove a negative ? '' since most prosecutors would n't be able to demonstrate conclusively that racial considerations did n't affect sentencing , executions everywhere might come to a halt , mr. boyd explains 0 . at least 15 major studies purport to show that particular states have imposed the death penalty disproportionately against killers of whites compared with blacks , and against black defendants compared with white defendants . conservatives question the validity of the studies and note that the supreme court ruled in 1987 that such research , regardless of its accuracy , is n't relevant to a constitutional attack on a particular death sentence . the kennedy amendment would , in effect , legislate around the supreme court ruling . lawyers would eagerly seize on the provision in their death-penalty appeals , says richard burr , director of the naacp legal defense and educational fund 's capital-punishment defense team . mr. kennedy failed to get his amendment incorporated into last year 's anti-drug legislation , and it will be severely attacked on the senate floor this time around . but if it survives , it could prompt other statutory changes , according to the mr. burr . it might force congress and the states to narrow the death penalty only to convictions shown to be relatively free of racial imbalance -- murders by repeat offenders who torture their victims , perhaps . narrowing the penalty in this fashion would clearly reduce whatever deterrent effect it now has . and that , in turn , would only strengthen the argument of those who oppose execution under any circumstances .