moody 's investors service inc. said 0 it lowered ratings on long-term debt of cs first boston inc. , the holding company of wall street giant first boston corp. , because of first boston 's `` aggressive merchant banking risk '' in highly leveraged takeovers . in downgrading cs first boston 's subordinated domestic , euromarket and swiss debt to single-a-3 from single-a-2 , moody 's is matching a move made by the other major credit rating concern , standard & poor 's corp. , several months ago . moody 's also confirmed the prime-1 rating , its highest , on cs first boston 's commercial paper , or short-term corporate ious . in addition , moody 's said 0 it downgraded financiere credit suisse-first boston 's senior and subordinated swiss debt to single-a-2 from single-a-1 and lowered financiere csfb n.v. 's junior subordinated perpetual eurodebt , guaranteed by financiere credit suisse -- first boston , to single-a-3 from single-a-2 . about $ 550 million of long-term debt is affected , according to moody 's . a spokesman for cs first boston said : `` we remain committed to a full range of businesses , including merchant banking . we think that the ratings revision is unfortunate but not unexpected . our commitment to manage these businesses profitably will continue . '' first boston 's merchant banking risks mounted last month as highly leveraged campeau corp. , first boston 's most lucrative client of the decade , was hit by a cash squeeze and the high-risk junk bond market tumbled . first boston incurred millions of dollars of losses on campeau securities 0 it owned as well as on special securities 0 it could n't sell . first boston financings for several other highly leveraged clients , including ohio mattress , unraveled as the high-risk junk bond market plummeted . moody 's said 0 its rating changes actions `` reflect cs first boston 's aggressive merchant banking risk as well as the risk profile of its current merchant banking exposures . '' it said 0 cs first boston `` has consistently been one of the most aggressive firms in merchant banking '' and that `` a very significant portion '' of the firm 's profit in recent years has come from merchant banking-related business . `` moody 's believes that the uncertain environment for merchant banking could put pressure on cs first boston 's performance , '' the rating concern said , citing `` continued problems '' from the firm 's exposures to `` various campeau-related firms '' and to ohio mattress . `` these two exposures alone represent a very substantial portion of cs first boston 's equity , '' moody 's said . `` total merchant banking exposures are in excess of the firm 's equity .