korean car exports have slid about 40 % so far this year , but auto makers here are n't panicking . they are enjoying domestic sales that are more than making up for lost overseas sales . south korean consumers are expected to buy almost 500,000 passenger cars this year , up 60 % from 1988 . in fact , some auto executives suggest that slackened demand for their cars in the u.s. and canada is a blessing ; otherwise they would n't be able to keep up with demand in the more profitable local market . `` we are very lucky to easily change an export loss to domestic plus , '' says hong tu pyo , managing director of domestic marketing for hyundai motor co . as it is , waiting lists of a month are n't unusual for popular models . demand is so strong that all of the domestic makers -- hyundai , kia motors corp. , daewoo motor co. and even upstart ssangyong motor co. -- plan to build more factories . industry analysts predict that by 1995 , south korea will be building three million cars a year -- about half of that for export . it 's an optimistic move in a industry already facing world-wide overcapacity . but south korean auto makers are confident that the export market will bounce back and that demand in korea will stay strong . currently only one in 38 south koreans owns a car , up from one in 200 a decade ago . `` in the year 2000 it will be one car per family . at that point domestic sales will slow down , '' says kim yoon kwon , director of marketing for daewoo motor . the reason for the tremendous demand is simple : south koreans suddenly have a lot more money . `` we never thought 0 we 'd own a car , '' says kwang ok kyong , who just bought a daewoo lemans on a five-year loan . she and her husband started a small printing business and need the car for work as well as for weekend jaunts . pay raises of 60 % over the past three years have given many south koreans the money 0 to enjoy the things 0 they were supplying the rest of the world . the success of newcomer ssangyong motor shows the strength of the auto market and its growing diversity . a part of the construction-oriented conglomerate ssangyong group , it took over the dying dong-a motor co. in 1986 . ssangyong began making variations of the jeep-like `` korando '' vehicle . -lrb- dong-a had had a technology agreement with jeep maker american motors corp. , now a part of chrysler corp . -rrb- the most popular style is the stretched `` family , '' which resembles a ford bronco or chevy blazer . the four-wheel-drive vehicles start at $ 15,000 ; a family can cost over $ 25,000 . ssangyong , which has only about 3 % of the domestic market , will sell about 18,000 of its models this year , twice as many as last year . it sees sales rising 45 % to 26,000 units next year . the company plans to expand plant capacity 50 % by 1991 . by then it also hopes to begin producing a passenger car based on the volvo 240 and selling for about $ 20,000 . hyundai and daewoo seem unconcerned about the ssangyong threat , but kia , the scrappy no.3 auto maker , is selling four-wheel-drive vehicles through its asia unit . it plans to sell 1,700 units in 1989 . kia , the only korean car maker that has seen its overseas sales grow in 1989 , aims at korea 's common man . its advantage has been the peppy little pride , sold as the ford festiva in the u.s. . at 3.8 million won , or $ 5,700 , the econobox is the lowest-priced car in south korea . along with two larger models , the company claims 18 % of the domestic market . ford motor co. and japan 's mazda motor corp. have equity interests in kia . kia is the most aggressive of the korean big three in offering financing . loans for as long as five years make the cars very accessible , with monthly payments as low as 80,000 won , or $ 120 . daewoo motor , a 50-50 joint venture with general motors corp. and the daewoo group conglomerate , is the only auto maker that appears to be hurting . shipments of its lemans to gm 's pontiac division are off about 65 % from a year ago , versus a 44 % decline for hyundai and an 18 % increase for kia . moreover , daewoo 's domestic sales have grown half as fast as sales of its rivals . the big problem for daewoo , which holds about 21 % of the market , is the long series of labor disruptions 0 it suffered this year . but daewoo is expanding too . in fact , a sister company , daewoo shipbuilding and heavy machinery , plans to build 240,000 minicars by the mid-1990s . hyundai , the korean market leader with a 58 % share , also plans to jump into minicars at the same time . it has a similar project for 200,000 cars a year . kia is reportedly also considering such a plan . even giant samsung group is rumored in the korean press to be considering getting into the auto-making business ; a company spokesman had no comment .