ralph brown was 31,000 feet over minnesota when both jets on his falcon 20 flamed out . at 18,000 feet , he says 0 , he and his co-pilot `` were looking for an interstate or a cornfield '' to land . at 13,000 feet , the engines restarted . but knowing that mechanics would probably ground him for repairs , mr. brown skipped his stop in nearby chicago and set course to get his load -- a few hundred parcels -- to the memphis package-sorting hub on time . had he been a little less gung-ho , `` i 'd have gotten the thing on the ground and headed for the nearest bar , '' mr. brown says 0 . but he flies for federal express corp. , perhaps the closest thing in corporate america to the green berets . federal 's employees work long hours and seem to thrive on the stress of racing the clock . like mr. brown , they sometimes go to surprising lengths to meet that overarching corporate goal : delivering the goods on time . they are a tribute to federal 's management which , since the company 's founding 16 years ago , has had its way with its work force -- an unusual feat in the contentious transportation industry . that may soon change . this month , federal 's 2,048 pilots , including some 961 acquired along with tiger international inc. in february , will decide whether to elect the powerful air line pilots association as their bargaining agent . the election , which would bring the first major union to federal 's u.s. operations , has pitted new hires against devoted veterans such as mr. brown . it has also rattled federal 's strongly anti-union management , which is already contending with melding far-flung operations and with falling profits . `` a union , sooner or later , has to have an adversary , and it has to have a victory , '' frederick w. smith , federal 's chairman and chief executive , says with disdain . `` in our formula , we do n't have any losers except the competition . '' what managers really fear is that the pro-union movement could spread beyond the pilots . under federal transportation law , a government mediator is attempting to reconcile the melding of tiger 's job classifications into federal 's . depending on the outcome , the merged company may face union elections this fall among airplane mechanics , ramp workers , stock clerks and flight dispatchers . these groups constitute up to 10 % of its work force . `` unions would have a profound effect on the whole culture of the company , '' says bernard la londe , a professor at ohio state university at columbus and a federal consultant . that culture , carefully crafted by mr. smith , leaves little , if any , room for unions . since founding the company , the charismatic vietnam vet , who is still only 46 years old , has fostered an ethos of combat . flights are `` missions . '' mr. smith 's managers have , at times , been called `` ho chi minh 's guerrillas . '' the bravo zulu award , the navy accolade for a `` job well done , '' is bestowed on federal 's workers who surpass the call of duty . competitors are known as the `` enemy . '' to reinforce employees ' dedication , mr. smith pays well . he also lets workers vent steam through an elaborate grievance procedure and , as a perk , fly free in empty cockpit seats . he gives pep talks in periodic `` family briefings '' beamed internationally on `` fxtv , '' the company 's own television network . and , with many of his 70,000 workers , mr. smith 's damn-the-torpedoes attitude has caught on . james cleveland , a courier who earned a bravo zulu for figuring out how to get a major customer 's 1,100-parcel-a-week load to its doorstep by 8 a.m. , considers himself far more than a courier . `` we do n't just hand the customer the package . that 's just the beginning , '' he says . `` in essence , we run the show . '' david sanders , a longtime pilot , bristles at the mere suggestion that a union might tamper with his flight schedule . `` this is america , '' he says . `` nobody has the right to tell me how much i can work . '' such attitudes have given federal flexibility , 0 not only to rapidly implement new technology but to keep its work force extraordinarily lean . the company deliberately understaffs , stretching employees ' schedules to the limit . but though couriers work as many as 60 hours a week during the autumn rush , they leave early during slack times while still being assured of a minimum paycheck . pilots , as well , routinely fly overtime to ensure that none are furloughed during seasonal lows . the operational freedom has also given federal a leg up on archrival united parcel service inc. , the nation 's largest employer of united brotherhood of teamsters members . ups wo n't discuss its labor practices , but , according to mr. cleveland , a former ups employee , and others , union work rules prohibit ups drivers from doing more than carrying packages between customers and their vans . because ups drivers are n't permitted to load their own vehicles at the depot , say 0 these couriers , packages often get buried in the load and are delivered late . labor problems are the last thing 0 mr. smith needs right now . although the tiger acquisition has brought federal a long way toward becoming the global player 0 it wants to be , it also has brought problems . it more than doubled federal 's long-term debt to $ 1.9 billion , thrust the company into unknown territory -- heavy cargo -- and suddenly expanded its landing rights to 21 countries from four . federal , on its own , had n't been doing very well overseas . it had hemorrhaged in its attempt to get into asia , where treaty restrictions forced it to fly some planes half-empty on certain routes . on routes to south america , the company had no backup jets 0 to ensure delivery when planes were grounded . in europe , business suffered as federal bought several local companies , only to have the managers quit . these and other problems squeezed federal 's profit margins last year to 8 % , down from more than 13 % annually in the first half of the decade . earnings have plummeted , too , in each of the past three quarters . in the fiscal first period ended aug. 31 , profit fell 54 % to $ 30.4 million , or 58 cents a share , mostly because of the tiger merger , federal says 0 . federal 's stock price , however , has held up well , driven in part by the general run-up of airline stocks , analysts say 0 . since trading as low as $ 42.25 a share in may , federal 's shares have rallied as high as $ 57.87 in new york stock exchange composite trading . they closed friday at $ 53.25 , down 50 cents on the day . there 's a certain irony in the fact that federal express faces its first union problems as a result of its tiger purchase . tiger itself was founded by a band of gungho airmen who had airlifted supplies `` over the hump '' from india to china during world war ii . in the early 1970s , mr. smith modeled his fledgling company on tiger 's innovation of hub-and-spoke and containerized-cargo operations . but from early on , tiger 's workers unionized , while federal 's never have . federal express officials acknowledge mistakes in their drive overseas but say 0 it will pay off eventually . analysts expect federal 's earnings to improve again in its fiscal third quarter ending feb. 28 , when the company should begin benefiting from tiger 's extra flights , back-up planes and landing rights . until then , they expect the cost of integrating the two carriers to continue crimping profits . for now , the union issue is the most nettlesome of federal 's tiger problems , management believes 0 . although encouraging dialogue between managers and workers , mr. smith does n't countenance what he considers insubordination . when a large group of pilots once signed petitions opposing work-rule and compensation changes , he called a meeting in a company hangar and dressed them down for challenging his authority . he then made most of the changes , pilots say 0 . that sort of approach , however , has n't worked since the addition of tiger . its 6,500 workers , who had battled tiger 's management for years over givebacks , were union members until the day of the merger , when most of their unions were automatically decertified . soon after the merger , moreover , federal 's management asked tiger 's pilots to sign an agreement stating that they could be fired any time , without cause or notice . when the pilots refused , the company retracted it . mr. smith angered federal 's pilots , too . in his haste to seal the deal with tiger chairman saul steinberg last august , mr. smith ignored a promise that he had made to his own pilots three years ago : that any fliers acquired in future mergers would be `` end-tailed '' -- put at the bottom of the pilot seniority list that determines work schedules , pay and career options . the tiger merger agreement stipulated that the lists be combined on the basis of tenure . mr. smith is trying hard to allay the anger . and even some pro-union pilots say 0 his charisma and popularity among the many former military fliers could be tough 0 to beat . `` a lot of people are identifying a vote for representation as a vote against fred smith , '' says j.x. gollich , a tiger-turned-federal pilot and union activist . mr. smith and other top federal executives have met with tiger workers in los angeles , ohio , new york , alaska , asia and europe . recently , they have appeared every few weeks in talk-show type videos , countering pro-union arguments . in one video , mr. smith defended his agreement to merge the pilot-seniority lists . he said 0 mr. steinberg had insisted that the merger talks move quickly . regulators , as well , might have quashed the deal if tiger 's pilots had n't been protected , he said 0 . furthermore , mr. smith added 0 , `` our contract with our pilots says that we will manage our fleet operations with their advice . it does n't give any particular group the ability to veto change . '' already , the fight has been costly . the seniority-list controversy , along with the job-classification dispute , has been turned over to the mediator . meanwhile , the company is operating with two separate pilot groups and seniority lists , and that is costing federal `` a big number , '' says 0 james barksdale , executive vice president and chief operating officer . the issue has also cost federal management a lot of good will among its old pilots . `` they were willing to mistreat us because we had n't shown any moxie , any resistance , '' says william queenan , a dc-10 pilot and 14-year federal veteran . adds john poag , a 727 captain and past chairman of the company-sponsored flight advisory board : `` they 've made all these magnanimous gestures to the flying tiger pilots , and for us , nothing . '' such animosity could prove pivotal in the union vote . a large majority of the 961 former tiger fliers support the union , according to a union study . but though most of the 1,087 federal pilots are believed opposed , it is unclear just how much their loyalty to mr. smith has been eroded . the fight has turned ugly and , among pilots at least , has shattered the esprit de corps that mr. smith worked so hard to build . anti-union pilots have held ballot-burning parties . some younger pilots say 0 they have had to endure anti-union harangues by senior pilots while flying across the country . and for now , at least , the competition is n't the only enemy . barney barnhardt , a 727 captain and leader of the pro-union forces , said 0 he has received two anonymous death threats and been challenged to a fight with tire irons by a colleague . `` the pilots are either for us or extremely against us , '' he says with a sigh .