the world had a big yuk recently when the soviets reported a rash of ufo landings , one of them bringing tall aliens who glowed in the dark to voronezh . it is the opinion of timothy good , author of `` above top secret : the world ufo cover-up '' -lrb- quill\/william morrow , 592 pages , $ 12.95 -rrb- , that the world laughs too fast . here is a bible for ufo watchers , complete with pictures of people who say 0 they 've had personal relationships with aliens . one photo shows a woman sporting a scar 0 she says 0 was made by a laser beam -lrb- a low-caliber weapon , from the looks of the wound -rrb- . so far anyway , our alien visitors seem more intent on brightening our skies than pulverizing us . mr. good devotes much serious space to the events of feb. 25 , 1942 , when american gunners spotted strange lights in the sky above los angeles . air-raid sirens sounded the alarm at 2:25 a.m. , summoning 12,000 air wardens to duty . soon all hell broke loose . ground batteries , targeting an odd assortment of aircraft traveling at highly unusual speeds , opened up a furious fusillade . the sky filled with 12.8-pound shells , several of which fell back to earth , destroying homes and buildings . when the smoke cleared , six people were dead -lrb- three from heart attacks -rrb- , and everyone wondered what in the world they were shooting at . mr. good , who documents these things as best he can , provides an official explanation in the form of a memorandum from chief of staff george c. marshall to president roosevelt : `` 1,430 pounds of ammunition , '' he wrote his commander in chief 0 , were expended on `` unidentified aircraft , '' flying at speeds as slow as 200 mph and elevations between 9,000 and 18,000 feet . well , thousands of californians on the scene insisted 0 the ammo had been uselessly aimed at a large , hardy ufo , but you will just have to make your own decision about such sightings . one thing 's for sure : there have been a ton of them , and greater beings than the editors of the national enquirer have shown interest . gerald ford , a fairly down-to-earth fellow , once sent a letter to the chairman of the armed services committee recommending that `` there be a committee investigation of the ufo phenomenon . i think 0 we owe it to the american people to establish credibility regarding ufos and to produce the greatest possible enlightenment on the subject . '' jimmy carter went further in a 1976 campaign promise : `` if i become president , i 'll make every piece of information 0 this country has about ufo sightings available to the public , and the scientists . i am convinced that ufos exist because i have seen one ... . '' but you know about campaign promises . it still does n't look like governments are coughing up everything 0 they know . still , despite their efforts to convince the world that we are indeed alone , the visitors do seem to keep coming and , like the recent sightings , there 's often a detail or two that suggests 0 they may actually be a little on the dumb side . for instance , witnesses in voronezh say 0 the pinheaded behemoths and their robot friend , after strolling around the city park , left behind some rocks . now why , you have to ask yourself , would intelligent beings haul a bunch of rocks around the universe ? or land in russia so often . in a 1961 incident , a soviet mail plane disappeared off the radar screen just after radioing its position to ground control in sverdlovsk . a search party soon found the unscathed aircraft in a forest clearing much too small to have allowed a conventional landing . what 's more , the seven mail personnel aboard were missing . again , you have to ask the obvious question : why would intelligent beings kidnap seven soviet mailmen ? speculation as to the nature of aliens will no doubt continue until we wake up one morning to find 0 they 've taken over `` the today show , '' the way 0 they overwhelm an entire town in jack finney 's `` invasion of the body snatchers '' -lrb- fireside\/simon & schuster , 216 pages , $ 8.95 -rrb- . maybe some of our talk-show hosts and anchors have already been taken over ? the point of this 1955 novel , which spawned two movies , is that the soulless pod people replicated by alien plants are virtually indistinguishable from human folks . another guy who thinks 0 they 're out there and closing fast is whitley strieber , whose new novel , `` majestic '' -lrb- putnam , 317 pages , $ 18.95 -rrb- , takes a look at a reported 1947 ufo crash near the roswell army air field in a new mexico desert . mr. strieber knows a lot about aliens . he even had sex with one -- sort of , and not intentionally -- as readers learned in his `` communion '' -lrb- a book recently described in the new york times as a `` nonfiction best seller '' -rrb- . the way 0 mr. strieber tells it in his earnest prose , the intelligence officer who found the craft 's strange debris was forced by the government to call the flower-inscribed scraps parts of a weather balloon . the apparent crash became top secret , and the alien creatures went away upset with the rude ways of human beings . we lost our chance to communicate with sweet-natured visitors `` about four feet tall -lcb- who -rcb- looked as though they were made of puffed-up marshmallow . '' mr. shiflett is an editorial writer for the rocky mountain news .