the government is sharpening its newest weapon against white-collar defendants : the power 0 to prevent them from paying their legal bills . and defense lawyers are warning that they wo n't stick around if they do n't get paid . the issue has come to a boil in newark , n.j. , where federal prosecutors have warned lawyers for eddie antar that if the founder and former chairman of crazy eddie inc. is indicted , the government may move to seize the money that mr. antar is using to pay legal fees . the warning by the u.s. attorney 's office follows two decisions by the u.s. supreme court last june . in those cases , the high court ruled that federal law gives prosecutors broad authority 0 to seize assets of people accused of racketeering and drug-related crimes , including fees paid to lawyers before an indictment . if the government succeeds in seizing mr. antar 's assets , he could be left without top-flight legal representation , because his attorneys are likely to quit , according to individuals familiar with the case . a seizure also would make the case the largest -- and one of the first -- in which lawyers ' fees have been confiscated in a prosecution unrelated to drugs . `` the people who suffer in the short run are defendants , but the people who suffer in the long run are all of the people , because there wo n't be a vigorous private bar 0 to defend the bill of rights , '' says gerald lefcourt , a criminal defense attorney who says 0 he has turned down a number of cases to avoid possible fee seizures . mr. antar is being investigated by a federal grand jury in newark , where prosecutors have told him that they may soon seek an indictment on racketeering and securities fraud charges . under the racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations law , or rico , the government has the authority 0 to seek to freeze or seize a defendant 's assets before trial . according to individuals familiar with mr. antar 's case , prosecutors issued their warning this week after one of mr. antar 's attorneys asked whether legal fees might be subject to seizure . in a letter , prosecutors told mr. antar 's lawyers that because of the recent supreme court rulings , they could expect that any fees collected from mr. antar may be seized . prosecutors have told mr. antar 's attorneys that they believe 0 mr. antar 's allegedly ill-gotten gains are so great that any money 0 he has used to pay attorneys derives from illegal activities . therefore , they said 0 , the money can be taken from the lawyers even after they are paid . justin feldman and jack arseneault , attorneys for mr. antar , both declined to comment on the matter . in newark , u.s. attorney samuel a. alito said , `` i do n't think 0 there 's any legal reason 0 to limit forfeiture of attorney 's fees to drug cases . '' mr. alito said 0 his office `` just responded to an attorney 's question about whether we would go after attorney 's fees , and that is different from actually doing it , although we reserve that right . '' mr. antar was charged last month in a civil suit filed in federal court in newark by the securities and exchange commission . in that suit , the sec accused mr. antar of engaging in a `` massive financial fraud '' to overstate the earnings of crazy eddie , edison , n.j. , over a three-year period . through his lawyers , mr. antar has denied allegations in the sec suit and in civil suits previously filed by shareholders against mr. antar and others . the sec has alleged that mr. antar aimed to pump up the company 's stock price through false financial statements in order to sell his stake and reap huge profits . mr. antar , the sec said 0 , made more than $ 60 million from the sale of his shares between 1985 and 1987 . the justice department has emphasized that the government 's fee-forfeiture power is to be used sparingly . according to department policy , prosecutors must make a strong showing that lawyers ' fees came from assets tainted by illegal profits before any attempts at seizure are made . still , criminal defense lawyers worry that defendants are being deprived of their sixth amendment right to counsel and a fair trial if the government can seize lawyers ' fees . they also worry that if the government applies asset-forfeiture laws broadly , the best defense lawyers will be unwilling to take criminal cases unless they are assured of being paid .