britain 's current account deficit dropped to # 1.6 billion -lrb- $ 2.56 billion -rrb- in september from an adjusted # 2 billion -lrb- $ 3.21 billion -rrb- the previous month , but the improvement comes amid increasing concern that a recession could strike the u.k. economy next year . the confederation of british industry 's latest survey shows that business executives expect a pronounced slowdown , largely because of a 16-month series of interest-rate increases that has raised banks ' base lending rates to 15 % . `` the outlook has deteriorated since the summer , with orders and employment falling and output at a standstill , '' said david wigglesworth , chairman of the industry group 's economic committee . he also said 0 investment by businesses is falling off . of 1,224 companies surveyed , 31 % expect to cut spending on plant equipment and machinery , while only 28 % plan to spend more . but despite mounting recession fears , government data do n't yet show the economy grinding to a halt . unemployment , for example , has continued to decline , and the september trade figures showed increases in both imports and exports . as a result , prime minister margaret thatcher 's government is n't currently expected to ease interest rates before next spring , if then . chancellor of the exchequer nigel lawson views the high rates as his chief weapon against inflation , which was ignited by tax cuts and loose credit policies in 1986 and 1987 . officials fear that any loosening this year could rekindle inflation or further weaken the pound against other major currencies . fending off attacks on his economic policies in a house of commons debate yesterday , mr. lawson said 0 inflation `` remains the greatest threat to our economic well-being '' and promised to take `` whatever steps are needed '' to choke it off . the latest government figures said 0 retail prices in september were up 7.6 % from a year earlier . many economists have started predicting a mild recession next year . david owen , u.k. economist with kleinwort benson group , reduced his growth forecast for 1990 to 0.7 % from 1.2 % and termed the risk of recession next year `` quite high . '' but he said 0 the downturn probably wo n't become a `` major contraction '' similar to those of 1974 and 1982 . still , britain 's current slump is a cause for concern here as the nation joins in the european community 's plan to create a unified market by 1992 . compared with the major economies on the continent , the u.k. faces both higher inflation and lower growth in the next several months . as a result , mr. owen warned 0 , investment will be more likely to flow toward the other european economies and `` the u.k. will be less prepared for the single market . '' britain 's latest trade figures contained some positive news for the economy , such as a surge in the volume of exports , which were 8.5 % higher than a year earlier . but while september exports rose to # 8.43 billion , imports shot up to # 10.37 billion . the resulting # 1.9 billion merchandise trade deficit was partly offset by an assumed surplus of # 300 million in so-called invisible items , which include income from investments , services and official transfers . despite the narrowing of the monthly trade gap , economists expect the current account deficit for all of 1989 to swell to about # 20 billion from # 14.6 billion in 1988 . increasingly , economists say 0 the big deficit reflects the slipping competitive position of british industry . `` when the country gets wealthier , we tend to buy high-quality imports , '' mr. owen said .