southern co. 's gulf power co. unit may plead guilty this week to charges that it illegally steered company money to politicians through outside vendors , according to individuals close to an investigation of the utility holding company . the tentative settlement between gulf power , a pensacola , fla. , electric company , and federal prosecutors would mark the end of one part of a wide-ranging inquiry of southern co. in the past year . a grand jury has been investigating whether officials at southern co. conspired to cover up their accounting for spare parts to evade federal income taxes . the grand jury has also been investigating whether gulf power executives violated the federal utility holding company act , which prohibits certain utilities from making political contributions . the individuals said 0 gulf power and federal prosecutors are considering a settlement under which the company would plead guilty to two felony charges and pay fines totaling between $ 500,000 and $ 1.5 million . under one count , gulf power would plead guilty to conspiring to violate the utility holding company act . under the second count , the company would plead guilty to conspiring to evade taxes . the guilty pleas would be made solely by gulf power , the individuals said 0 . no employee or vendor would be involved . a spokesman for southern co. would say only that discussions are continuing between gulf power and federal prosecutors . `` we have no further developments 0 to report , '' he said . officials at gulf power could n't be reached for comment . and prosecutors declined to comment . while southern co. has been reluctant to discuss the grand jury investigations , edward l. addison , chief executive officer , has said 0 the company is prepared to defend its tax and acccounting practices if any charges are brought against it . morever , mr. addison has said 0 southern co. and its units do n't condone illegal political contributions . neither mr. addison nor any other southern co. official has been charged with any wrongdoing in connection with the current inquiries . the probe of southern co. has attracted considerable attention this year because of several events that have befallen the company , including the death of a gulf power executive in a plane crash and the disappearance of a company vendor who was to be a key grand jury witness . witnesses have said 0 the grand jury has asked numerous questions about jacob f. `` jake '' horton , the senior vice president of gulf power who died in the plane crash in april . mr. horton oversaw gulf power 's governmental-affairs efforts . on the morning of the crash , he had been put on notice that an audit committee was recommending his dismissal because of invoicing irregularities in a company audit . investigators have been trying to determine whether the crash was an accident , sabotage or suicide . gulf power said in may that an internal audit had disclosed that at least one vendor had used false invoices to fund political causes . but the company said 0 the political contributions had been made more than five years ago .