the debate over national service has begun again . after a decade in which more than 50 localities established their own service or conservation corps and dozens of school systems made community service a prerequisite to high-school graduation , the focus has shifted to washington . at least 10 bills proposing one or another national program were introduced in congress this spring . one , co-sponsored by sen. sam nunn -lrb- d. , ga . -rrb- and rep. dave mccurdy -lrb- d. , okla. -rrb- , would have restricted federal college subsidies to students who had served . an omnibus bill assembled by sen. edward kennedy -lrb- d. , mass. -rrb- , and including some diluted nunn-mccurdy provisions along with proposals by fellow democratic sens. claiborne pell , barbara mikulski and christopher dodd , has been reported out of the senate labor committee . it might well win senate passage . president bush has outlined his own youth entering service -lrb- yes -rrb- plan , though its details remain to be specified . what is one to think of all this ? doctrine and special interests govern some responses . people eager to have youth `` pay their dues to society '' favor service proposals -- preferably mandatory ones . so do those who seek a `` re-energized concept of citizenship , '' a concept imposing stern obligations as well as conferring rights . then there are instinctive opponents . to libertarians , mandatory service is an abomination and voluntary systems are illegitimate uses of tax money . devotees of the market question the value of the work 0 national service would perform : if the market wo n't pay for it , they argue , it ca n't be worth its cost . elements of the left are also reflexively opposed ; they see service as a cover for the draft , or fear the regimentation of youth , or want to see rights enlarged , not obligations . but what about those of us whose views are not predetermined by formula or ideology ? how should we think about national service ? let 's begin by recognizing a main source of confusion -- `` national service '' has no agreed meaning . would service be voluntary or compulsory ? short or long ? part-time or full-time ? paid or unpaid ? would participants live at home and work nearby or live in barracks and work on public lands ? what kinds of work would they do ? what does `` national '' mean ? would the program be run by the federal government , by local governments , or by private voluntary organizations ? and who would serve ? only males , as with the draft , or both sexes ? youth only or all ages ? middle-class people , or poor people , or a genuine cross-section ? many or few ? those are not trivial questions , and the label `` national service '' answers none of them . then how should we think about national service ? as a starting point , here are five propositions : 1 . consider the ingredients , not the name . ignore `` national service '' in the abstract ; consider specific proposals . they will differ in crucial ways . 2 . `` service '' should be service . as commonly understood , service implies sacrifice . it involves accepting risk , or giving up income , or deferring a career . it follows that proposals like nunn-mccurdy , whose benefits to enrollees are worth some $ 17,500 a year , do not qualify . there is a rationale for such bills : federal subsidies to college students amount to `` a gi bill without the gi '' ; arguably those benefits should be earned , not given . but the earnings exceed by 20 % the average income of young high-school graduates with full-time jobs . why call that service ? 3 . encouragement is fine ; compulsion is not . compelled service is unconstitutional . it is also unwise and unenforceable . -lrb- who will throw several hundred thousand refusers in jail each year ? -rrb- but through tax policy and in other ways the federal government encourages many kinds of behavior . it should also encourage service -- preferably by all classes and all ages . its encouragement should strengthen and not undercut the strong tradition of volunteering in the u.s. , should build on the service programs already in existence , and should honor local convictions about which tasks most need doing . 4 . good programs are not cheap . enthusiasts assume that national service would get important work done cheaply : forest fires fought , housing rehabilitated , students tutored , day-care centers staffed . there is important work 0 to be done , and existing service and conservation corps have shown that even youths who start with few skills can do much of it well -- but not cheaply . good service programs require recruitment , screening , training and supervision -- all of high quality . they involve stipends to participants . full-time residential programs also require housing and full-time supervision ; they are particularly expensive -- more per participant than a year at stanford or yale . non-residential programs are cheaper , but good ones still come to some $ 10,000 a year . are they worth that ? evaluations suggest that good ones are -- especially so if the effects on participants are counted . but the calculations are challengeable . 5 . underclass youth are a special concern . are such expenditures worthwhile , then ? yes , if targeted . people of all ages and all classes should be encouraged to serve , but there are many ways for middle-class kids , and their elders , to serve at little public cost . they can volunteer at any of thousands of non-profit institutions , or participate in service programs required by high schools or encouraged by colleges or employers . underclass youth do n't have those opportunities . they are not enrolled in high school or college . they are unlikely to be employed . and they have grown up in unprecedentedly grim circumstances , among family structures breaking down , surrounded by self-destructive behaviors and bleak prospects . but many of them can be quite profoundly reoriented by productive and disciplined service . some wo n't accept the discipline ; others drop out for other reasons . but some whom nothing else is reaching are transformed . learning skills , producing something cooperatively , feeling useful , they are no longer dependent -- others now depend on them . even if it is cheaper to build playgrounds or paint apartments or plant dune-grass with paid professionals , the effects on the young people providing those services alter the calculation . strictly speaking , these youth are not performing service . they are giving up no income , deferring no careers , incurring no risk . but they believe themselves to be serving , and they begin to respect themselves -lrb- and others -rrb- , to take control of their lives , to think of the future . that is a service to the nation . it is what federal support should try hardest to achieve . mr. szanton , a carter administration budget official , heads his own washington-based strategic planning firm . he is a co-author of `` national service : what would it mean ? '' -lrb- lexington books , 1986 -rrb- .