a two-day meeting of representatives of cocom , the 17-nation group that oversees exports of sensitive goods to communist countries , did n't take any substantive decisions on trimming the list of items under controls . nor did it ease restrictions on exports to poland and hungary , according to u.s. officials who attended the talks . the u.s. had been under pressure from several cocom members , especially france , west germany and italy , to ease restrictions on some types of machine tools , which those countries argued 0 were now widely available to east bloc countries from non-cocom members . for several years some european countries have complained that outdated cocom lists and restrictions served more to hamper their trade than to add to western security . some countries also have been pressing for special treatment for hungary and poland as they move toward more democratic rule , just as special treatment had been agreed on for china . but u.s. officials said 0 representatives at the meeting decided that this was `` a matter for further discussion at future meetings . '' they added that `` all of us -lrb- cocom members -rrb- look at the changes in hungary and poland in a positive way , but a question of this scope deserves further discussion and study . '' the officials also said 0 the meeting agreed to continue treating china as a special case , despite the recent repression of dissent there , but to offer no further concessions . the u.s. officials said that despite the rapid changes under way in eastern europe and the soviet union , all the cocom members agreed on `` the continuing need for this organization , '' which was founded 40 years ago at the start of the cold war . the officials said 0 the meeting agreed to continue working toward `` streamlining '' cocom 's restricted products list , and to improve procedures for punishing companies that do n't comply with the export restrictions . the officials said 0 this meeting `` put in motion '' procedural steps that would speed up both of these functions , but that no specific decisions were taken on either matter .