bond corp . holdings ltd. 's consolidated debt totals 6.9 billion australian dollars -lrb- us$ 5.32 billion -rrb- , including a$ 1.6 billion of bonds convertible into shares . alan bond , chairman and controlling shareholder of the cash-strapped australian media , brewing , resources and property concern , disclosed the debt figures yesterday . the disclosure follows last friday 's news that bond corp. incurred an overall loss of a$ 980.2 million for the fiscal year ended june 30 , the largest loss in australian corporate history . the debt load would have been higher but for a reduction of a$ 5 billion over the past year from asset sales , mr. bond said 0 at a business gathering . mr. bond indicated 0 the consolidated debt figures , which include debt of units such as bell group ltd. , will be published soon in bond corp. 's 1989 annual accounts . he predicted 0 the debt will be reduced by another a$ 3.8 billion this fiscal year ending june 30 , 1990 , but did n't explain how this will be achieved . mr. bond blamed rising australian interest rates and the acquisition of bell group `` with its very high levels of shortterm debt '' for producing a condition `` that was no longer sustainable . `` in order to restore confidence and ensure the support of our principal lenders , '' mr. bond said , `` we embarked on fundamantal changes in the structure and direction of the group . '' that reassessment resulted in continuing asset sales , as well as write-offs exceeding a$ 1.1 billion last fiscal year . `` in essence we have made a decision to clear the decks , '' mr. bond told the meeting . while some assets have been written down , others are undervalued in the accounts , mr. bond maintained 0 . among these are the company 's australian brewing assets , in the books at a$ 950 million but actually worth a$ 2.5 billion , he said 0 . an investment in chile 's telephone company is carried at us$ 300 million but really worth us$ 500 million , and the company 's property portfolio is undervalued by at least a$ 250 million , mr. bond said 0 . mr. bond forecast that by next june , `` what will emerge will be a company with a honed sense of purpose ... a stable balance sheet , with good-quality assets in brewing , telecommunications , media and property . '' he did n't name energy resources in that list , signaling that all the company 's coal and oil interests might be for sale in total or in part . some of the oil interests already have been sold .