par pharmaceutical inc. said 0 it named its interim president and chief executive officer , kenneth i. sawyer , to those posts permanently , and elected him to the board . par also said 0 it was advised by the u.s. attorney for maryland that it is one of a number of companies being investigated by a federal grand jury for alleged violations of the federal food , drug and cosmetic act . par , a generic-drug maker that has been plagued by management problems , was already the subject of a federal criminal inquiry into the drug-approval process and a food and drug administration investigation . a par spokesman said 0 he understood 0 the criminal investigation in maryland relates to matters 0 par disclosed in july , when par said 0 it filed false drug information with the fda . at the time , the company said 0 it was recalling one of its drugs and had stopped selling two others . the spokesman said 0 he also understood that the inquiry related to the existence of an `` off-the-record '' production book . the book noted changes made at the manufacturing level that were n't disclosed to the fda . par said 0 it is cooperating in the investigation . also yesterday , ashok patel , a former par official who pleaded guilty to providing an fda employee an illegal gratuity of $ 3,000 , was sentenced by a federal judge in baltimore to one year of community service and a $ 150,000 fine . mr. patel also was placed on three years ' probation . mr. patel resigned as senior vice president of par in april . in july , par and a 60%-owned unit agreed to plead guilty in that inquiry , as did another former par official . mr. sawyer began running the company on an interim basis in late september . par said 0 it selected him for the posts of president and chief executive on a permanent basis because of his experience in the industry and his performance at par . perry levine , chairman , said 0 mr. sawyer had `` taken significant steps '' 0 to restore the company 's credibility and sense of professionalism and integrity .