china could exhaust its foreign-exchange reserves as early as next year , a western government report says 0 , unless imports are cut drastically to help narrow the balance-of-payments deficit . according to the report , completed last month , if china 's trade gap continues to widen at the pace seen in the first seven months of this year , the reserves would be wiped out either in 1990 or 1991 . a country is considered financially healthy if its reserves cover three months of its imports . the $ 14 billion of reserves 0 china had in june would cover just that much . the report by the western government , which declines to be identified , concludes that `` a near-term foreign-exchange payment problem can be avoided only if import growth drops to below 5 % per annum . '' according to chinese customs figures , import growth has slowed in recent months , dropping to 16 % in july and 7.1 % in august from the year-earlier periods , compared with an average growth rate of 26 % in the first half . but before import growth slowed , china 's buying spree in the first half already had taken its toll on foreign-exchange reserves . the $ 14 billion level in june marked a drop from $ 19 billion at the end of april . china 's last big import binge sent reserves tumbling to $ 10.6 billion in june 1985 from $ 16.6 billion the previous september . china might stave off a crisis if it acts as forcefully as it did to arrest the 1985 decline , when beijing slammed the brakes on foreign-exchange spending and devalued the currency . but this time , china faces a more difficult battle because of economic forces that have come into play since the tiananmen square killings june 4 . for example , china 's hard-currency income is expected to suffer from the big drop in tourist arrivals since june 4 . revenue from tourism this year is projected to total $ 1.3 billion , down from $ 2.2 billion last year . because of this and the huge trade gap , the deficit in china 's current account , which measures trade in goods and services plus certain unilateral transfers of funds , is expected to widen sharply from the $ 3.8 billion deficit last year . the western government report suggests a number of scenarios for china 's current-account balance , two of which are considered most likely . in one , imports and exports continue to grow at the respective average rates of 25 % and 5 % recorded during the first seven months , and the current-account deficit widens to $ 13.1 billion . in 1985 , china had a record deficit of $ 11.4 billion . the other scenario assumes that beijing takes effective actions to curb imports in the coming months . in this case , china would still finish the year with a current-account deficit of $ 8.7 billion , based on projections that imports for all of this year grow 20 % and exports 10 % . if china were still on good terms with foreign lenders , it might be able to stem the drain on its foreign-exchange reserves by using some loan funds to offset the current-account deficit . but since june , foreign bankers led by international financial institutions have virtually suspended their new loans to china . even if borrowing resumes , commercial bankers are n't expected to lend as much as before . in addition , economists are forecasting a slowdown in foreign direct investments as businessmen become increasingly wary of china 's deteriorating political and economic environment . on top of all this , foreign-debt repayments are expected to peak in 1991 to 1992 . with less capital coming in , china 's balance of payments would suffer . the western government report 's first scenario assumes a 30 % reduction in foreign borrowing and a 5 % contraction in foreign direct investment . in the second , foreign borrowing is projected to grow 10 % and investment to drop 10 % . but in either case , the report says 0 , china 's balance of payments would rapidly dry up foreign reserves , which are used to finance the imbalance . in the first scenario , the reserves would be exhausted next year , and in the second they would be wiped out in 1991 .