corporate efforts to control health-care costs by requiring evaluations prior to planned hospitalization and surgery have n't been sweeping enough to reduce the long-term rate of cost increases , according to a study by the institute of medicine . in the last decade , many corporations have embraced the `` utilization management '' cost containment strategy as a way 0 to control health-care costs for employees . these programs vary widely , but often require second opinions on proposed surgery , preadmission reviews of elective hospitalizations and reviews of treatment during illnesses or recovery periods . between 50 % and 75 % of today 's workers are covered by such plans , up from 5 % five years ago . `` although it probably has reduced the level of expenditures for some purchasers , utilization management -- like most other cost containment strategies -- does n't appear to have altered the long-term rate of increase in health-care costs , '' the institute of medicine , an affiliate of the national academy of sciences , concluded after a two-year study . `` employers who saw a short-term moderation in benefit expenditures are seeing a return to previous trends . '' while utilization management frequently reduces hospitalization costs , these savings are often offset by increases in outpatient services and higher administrative costs , according to the report by a panel of health-care experts . the report suggested that current review programs are too narrow . `` the unnecessary and inappropriate use of the hospital , and not the actual need for a particular procedure , has been the main focus , '' the panel said . `` as a general rule , prior-review programs have not made case-by-case assessments of the comparative costs of alternative treatments or sites of care . '' the report said that utilization management should have more of an impact as federal research on the effectiveness of medical treatments helps lead to medical practice guidelines . howard bailit , a panel member and a vice president of aetna life & casualty , said that utilization management will also do a better job of containing costs as it spreads to cover medical services delivered outside of hospitals . `` there 's pretty good evidence that utilization management has reduced inappropriate hospitalization , '' he said . but at the same time , spending on physician services and ambulatory care have mushroomed . `` it 's like squeezing a balloon , '' dr. bailit said . david rahill of a. foster higgins & co. said that clients of his consulting firm report that utilization management reduces their hospital care bills by about 5 % , but he agreed that for the health-care system as whole , some of these savings are offset by administrative and outpatient care costs . jerome grossman , chairman of the panel , agrees that administrative costs of utilization management programs can be high . `` you have a whole staff standing ready '' to evaluate the appropriateness of recommended treatment , he said 0 . dr. grossman , who also is president of new england medical center hospitals in boston , noted that the hospitals 0 he runs deal with more than 100 utilization management firms and that many of them have different procedures and requirements . the panel urged greater efforts to reduce the complexity , paperwork and cost of utilization review . `` utilization management needs to better demonstrate that it reduces the wasteful use of resources , improves the appropriateness of patient care and imposes only reasonable burdens on patients and providers , '' the panel concluded .