once you make up your mind about an investment , the rest is easy , right ? you just call your broker and say `` buy '' or `` sell . '' dream on . there are all sorts of ways 0 to give buy and sell instructions to a broker -- and just as many ways 0 to get burned if you do n't know what you 're doing . so here 's a rundown of the most common types of market orders permitted by the stock and commodity exchanges . two things 0 to keep in mind : not all exchanges accept every type of order . and even when a specific order is acceptable to an exchange , a brokerage firm can refuse to enter it for a customer . market order : this is probably the most widely used order -- and the one most open to abuse by unscrupulous floor brokers , since it imposes no price restrictions . with a market order , an investor tells a broker to buy or sell `` at the market . '' it 's like saying , `` get me in now '' or `` get me out now . '' for example , if wheat is being offered at $ 4.065 and bid at $ 4.060 , a market order to buy would be filled at the higher price and a market order to sell at the lower price . a recent indictment alleges that some floor brokers at the two largest chicago commodity exchanges used market orders to fill customers ' orders at unfavorable prices by arranging trades with fellow brokers . profits realized from these trades would then be shared by the conspiring brokers . limit order : limit orders are used when investors want to restrict the amount 0 they will receive or pay for an investment . investors do this by specifying a minimum price at which the investment may be sold or the maximum price that may be paid for it . suppose 0 an investor wants to sell a stock , but not for less than $ 55 . a limit order to sell could be entered at that price . one risk : investors may regret the restriction if the stock reaches 54 and then falls . unless the market goes at least one tick -lrb- the smallest price increment permitted -rrb- beyond the limit price , investors are n't assured of having their orders filled because there may not be sufficient trading volume 0 to permit filling it at the specified price . stop order : stop orders tell a floor broker to buy or sell an investment once the price reaches a certain level . once the price reaches that level , a stop order turns into a market order , and the order is filled at whatever price the broker can get . stop orders are sometimes called `` stop-loss '' orders because they are frequently used to protect profits or limit losses . while stop orders sound similar to limit orders , there is a difference : sell stops must be entered at a price below the current market price and buy stops above . in contrast , sell limit orders must be placed above the market price and buy limit orders are placed below . the crash in october 1987 and last friday 's sell-off painfully taught some investors exactly what stop orders will and wo n't do . an investor who may have placed a stop-loss order at $ 90 under a stock that was trading at $ 100 a share on the friday before the crash was stunned to discover that the order was filled at $ 75 when the stock opened at that price on monday . stop-limit order : stop-limit orders turn into limit orders when an investment trades at the price specified in the order . unlike stop orders -- which are filled at the market price when the stop price is hit -- stop-limit orders demand that the trades be made only at the specified price . if it ca n't be made at that price , it does n't get filled . investors who wish to be out of a position , without the risk of receiving a worse-than-expected price from a market order , may use this type of order to specify the price at which the order must be filled . but if the market moves quickly enough , it may be impossible for the broker to carry out the order because the investment has passed the specified price . market-if-touched order : market-if-touched orders are like stop orders in that they become market orders if a specified price is reached . however , unlike a buy-stop order , a buy market-if-touched order is entered at a price below the current price , while a sell market-if-touched order is entered at a price above it . as soon as the market trades at the specified price the floor broker will fill it at the best possible price . fill-or-kill order : the fill-or-kill order is one of several associated with the timing of trades . it instructs a broker to buy or sell an investment at the specified price or better . but if the investment ca n't be bought or sold immediately , the order is automatically canceled . gregory bessemer , who came in second in the stock division of the recently completed u.s. trading championship , says 0 he uses fill-or-kill orders almost exclusively when trading options . `` i like to use them to feel out the market , '' he says . `` if they do n't fill it immediately , then i can start over at a new price or try again with the same price . '' not-held order : this is another timing order . it is a market order that allows floor brokers to take more time 0 to buy or sell an investment , if they think 0 they can get a better price by waiting . not-held orders , which are also known as `` disregard the tape '' orders , are always done at the customer 's risk . one-cancels-the-other order : this is really two orders in one , generally for the same security or commodity , instructing floor brokers to fill whichever order they can first and then cancel the other order . in a fast-moving market , it prevents an investor from getting stuck with having made two trades on the same security . specific-time order : this type of order couples many of the orders described above with instructions that the order must be carried out at or by a certain time . `` on the close '' can be added to many types of orders . for example , `` market-on-close orders '' must be filled during the last few minutes of trading for the day at a price that is within the official closing range of prices as determined by the exchange . `` stop-close-only orders '' are stop orders that only become active during the closing minutes of trading . `` day orders '' expire at the end of the day on which they are entered , `` good-till-canceled orders '' have no expiration date . most brokers assume that all orders are day orders unless specified otherwise . on oct. 19 , 1987 , some investors learned the consequences of entering `` good-til-canceled limit orders '' and then forgetting about them . they found 0 they had bought stock from limit orders that they might have entered weeks or months earlier and had forgotten to cancel . it is always the responsibility of investors to keep track of the orders 0 they have placed . investors who change their mind about buying or selling after an order has been filled are , usually , stuck with the consequences . mr. angrist writes on the options and commodities markets for the wall street journal .