with the dust settling from the failed coup attempt in panama , one of the many lingering questions 0 the bush administration will ponder is this : is the national security council staff big enough , and does it have enough clout , to do its job of coordinating foreign policy ? president bush 's national security adviser , lt. gen. brent scowcroft , came into office in january intent on making the nsc staff leaner and more disciplined than it had been during the reagan administration . gen. scowcroft was a member of the tower commission , which investigated the iran-contra affair . he was all too aware of how a large , inadequately supervised nsc staff had spun out of control and nearly wrecked president reagan 's second term . so , following both the style 0 he pursued as president ford 's national security adviser and the recommendations of the tower commission , gen. scowcroft has pruned the nsc staff and tried to ensure that it sticks to its assigned tasks -- namely , gathering the views of the state department , pentagon and intelligence community ; serving as an honest broker in distilling that information for the president and then making sure 0 presidential decisions are carried out . the tower commission specifically said that the nsc staff should be `` small '' and warned against letting `` energetic self-starters '' like lt. col. oliver north strike out on their own rather than leaving the day-to-day execution of policies to the state department , pentagon or central intelligence agency . however , the panama episode has raised questions about whether the nsc staff is sufficiently big , diverse and powerful to coordinate u.s. policy on tough issues . during the coup attempt and its aftermath , nsc staffers were `` stretched very thin , '' says one senior administration official . `` it 's a very small shop . '' gen. scowcroft does n't plan to increase the staff right now , but is weighing that possibility , the official adds 0 . the nsc staff `` does n't have the horsepower that i believe 0 is required to have an effective interagency process , '' says frank gaffney , a former pentagon aide who now runs the center for security policy , a conservative washington think-tank . `` the problem with this administration , i think 0 , is that by design it has greatly diminished , both in a physical sense and in a procedural sense , the role of the nsc . '' the national security council itself was established in 1947 because policy makers sensed a need , in an increasingly complex world , for a formal system within the white house 0 to make sure that communications flowed smoothly between the president and the state department , pentagon and intelligence agencies . by law , the council includes the president , vice president and secretaries of state and defense . in practice , the director of central intelligence and chairman of the joint chiefs of staff also serve as unofficial members . but the size , shape and role of the nsc staff have been left for each president and his national security adviser to decide . that task is one of washington 's perennial problems . in the bush white house , the size of the nsc 's staff of professional officers is down to about 50 from about 70 in 1987 , administration officials say 0 . administration officials insist that the size of the staff was n't a problem during the panama crisis . but one clear problem during the coup attempt was that the nsc staffer most experienced in latin america , everett briggs , was gone . he had just resigned , at least in part because of a feud with assistant secretary of state bernard aronson over the administration 's policy on panama and support for nicaragua 's contra rebels . the absence of mr. briggs underscored the possible inadequacy of the current nsc staff . both gen. scowcroft and his deputy , robert gates , are experts in u.s.-soviet affairs . gen. scowcroft is particularly well-versed in arms control , and mr. gates has spent years studying soviet politics and society . both have become confidants of president bush . but neither has an extensive background in latin america , the middle east or asia . in those areas , the role of nsc staffers under them therefore have become more important . gen. scowcroft knows as well as anyone that one of the biggest dangers 0 he faces is that nsc staffers working in relative anonymity will take over policy-making and operational tasks that are best left to bigger and more experienced state department and pentagon bureaus . but just as every previous nsc adviser has , gen. scowcroft now will have to mull at what point the nsc staff becomes too lean and too restrained .