jaguar plc 's chairman said 0 he hopes to reach a friendly pact with general motors corp. within a month that may involve the british luxury-car maker 's producing a cheaper executive model . sir john egan told reporters at london 's motorfair yesterday 0 he `` would be disappointed if we could n't do -lcb- the deal -rcb- within a month . '' he said 0 the tie-up would mean 0 jaguar could `` develop cars down range -lcb- in price -rcb- from where we are '' by offering access to gm 's high-volume parts production . besides creating joint manufacturing ventures , the accord is expected to give gm about a 15 % stake that eventually would rise to about 30 % . jaguar figures 0 a friendly alliance with gm will fend off unwelcome advances from ford motor co . but ford , jaguar 's biggest shareholder since lifting its stake to 10.4 % this week , is pressing harder for talks with sir john . `` we 're getting to the point where we are going to have to meet '' with him , one ford official said 0 yesterday . ford probably will renew its request for such a meeting soon , he added 0 . sir john has spurned ford 's advances since the u.s. auto giant launched a surprise bid for as much as 15 % of jaguar last month . ford has signaled 0 it might acquire a majority interest later . `` i 'm not obligated to sit down and talk to anybody , '' the jaguar chairman asserted yesterday . he did n't rule out negotiations with ford , however . the fiercely proud but financially strapped british company prefers to remain independent and publicly held , despite ford 's promise of access to cash and technological know-how . sir john noted that gm , a longtime jaguar supplier , agrees `` 0 we should remain an independent company . '' he said 0 jaguar started negotiating with gm and several other car makers over a year ago , but the rest `` dropped by the wayside ever since the share price went above # 4 -lrb- $ 6.30 -rrb- a share . '' jaguar shares stood at 405 pence before ford 's initial announcement , but the subsequent takeover frenzy has driven them up . the stock traded late yesterday on london 's stock exchange at 673 pence , up 19 pence . developing an executive-model range would mark a major departure for britain 's leading luxury-car maker . a typical british executive car is mass produced and smaller than a luxury car . it generally fetches no more than # 25,000 -lrb- $ 39,400 -rrb- -- roughly # 16,000 less than the highest-priced jaguars , which are all known for their hand-crafted leather work . `` we have designs for such -lcb- executive -rcb- cars , but have never been able to develop them , '' sir john said . gm 's help would `` make it possible -lcb- for jaguar -rcb- to build a wider range of cars . '' an executive model would significantly boost jaguar 's yearly output of 50,000 cars . `` you are talking about a couple hundred thousand a year , '' said bob barber , an auto-industry analyst at u.k. brokerage james capel & co . a pact with gm may emerge in as little as two weeks , according to sources close to the talks . the deal would require approval by a majority of jaguar shareholders . `` we have to make it attractive enough that -lcb- holders -rcb- would accept it , '' sir john said . that may be difficult , the jaguar chairman acknowledged 0 , `` when you have somebody else breathing down your neck . '' ford probably would try to kill the proposal by enlisting support from u.s. takeover-stock speculators and holding out the carrot of a larger bid later , said 0 stephen reitman , european auto analyst at london brokers ubs phillips & drew . ford ca n't make a full-fledged bid for jaguar until u.k. government restrictions expire . the anti-takeover measure prevents any outside investor from buying more than 15 % of jaguar shares without permission until dec. 31 , 1990 . but with its 10.4 % stake , ford can convene a special jaguar shareholders ' meeting and urge them to drop the restrictions prematurely . `` it 's a very valuable weapon in their armory , '' which could enable ford to bid sooner for jaguar , observed 0 mr. barber of james capel . otherwise , jaguar may have to tolerate the two u.s. auto giants each owning a 15 % stake for more than a year . `` it would be difficult to see how a car company can be owned by a collective , '' sir john said . `` it has never been done before , but there 's always a first .