part of a series -rcb- smyrna , ga. -- the auto-dealer strip in this booming suburb runs nearly five miles along cobb parkway , stretching from the perimeter highway that circles atlanta to the `` big chicken , '' a pullet-roofed fast-food restaurant and local landmark . twenty years ago , in the infancy of suburban sprawl , just a handful of dealerships were here . now there are 23 . alongside such long-familiar names as chevrolet , ford and dodge are nameplates that did n't exist until three years ago : acura , sterling , hyundai . under construction is the strip 's 24th showroom , the future home of lexus , a luxury marque launched by toyota motor corp. just two months ago . the 1980s have spawned an explosion of consumer choice in america , in everything from phone companies to colas . and especially , as the cobb parkway strip attests , in cars . americans now can choose among 572 different models of cars , vans and trucks , up from just 408 when the decade began , according to automotive news , a trade publication . for car marketers , it has become a much tougher battle to keep loyal customers from defecting to one of the new makes on the block . for american car buyers , the proliferation of choice is both liberating and confusing . malcolm macdougall , vice chairman of the jordan , mcgrath , case & taylor advertising agency in new york , calls the proliferation `` nameplate mania . '' he says 0 the number of automobile choices is causing stress among consumers today , and that people will simply ignore new models that lack a well-defined image . `` the winners , '' he predicts , `` will be brands from car makers that have traditionally been associated with quality and value . '' he says 0 it 's important for a new make to be as distinctive as possible while still retaining links to the parent company 's quality image . he applauds toyota and nissan motor co. for creating separate divisions for their new luxury models , rather than simply adding more nameplates to their standard car lines . some auto executives believe 0 the benefits of more choice outweigh the drawbacks . `` there 's more noise out there , and the consumer may have to work harder to cut through it , '' says vincent p. barabba , executive director of market research and planning at general motors corp . `` but the reward is that there 's less need to make tradeoffs '' in choosing one 's wheels . jeanene page , of north salt lake city , utah , likes the broader selection . she wants something big , and already has looked at the chrysler new yorker and lincoln town car . now , the 55-year-old car shopper is zeroing in on a full-sized van , figuring that it 's just the thing 0 to haul nine grandchildren and pull a boat at the same time . `` that seems to be what all my friends are using to take the grandkids to the lake , '' she says . market segmentation in cars is n't new , but it 's far more extensive than when alfred p. sloan jr. conceived the idea 50 years ago . the legendary gm chairman declared that his company would make `` a car for every purse and purpose . '' now there are many cars for every purse and purpose . just four years ago , gm planners divided the combined car and truck market into seven segments . today , they identify 19 distinct segments for cars , and another 11 for trucks and vans . the number of makes has mushroomed because the u.s. is the world 's biggest and richest market for automobiles ; virtually every auto maker wants to sell here . for every brand like renault or fiat that has been squeezed out , others such as isuzu , daihatsu and mitsubishi have come in . detroit tries to counter the foreign invasion with new brands of its own . gm launched the geo marque this year 0 to sell cars made in partnership with foreign auto makers , and next year gm 's long-awaited saturn cars will make their debut . ford motor co. created the merkur nameplate in 1985 0 to sell its german-made touring sedans in the u.s. . but slow sales forced ford to kill the brand just last week . when consumers have so many choices , brand loyalty is much harder 0 to maintain . the wall street journal 's `` american way of buying '' survey found that 53 % of today 's car buyers tend to switch brands . for the survey , peter d. hart research associates and the roper organization each asked about 2,000 u.s. consumers about their buying habits . which cars do americans favor most these days ? it 's hard to generalize , but age seems to be the best predictor . adults under age 30 like sports cars , luxury cars , convertibles and imports far more than their elders do . three of every 10 buyers under 30 would prefer to buy a sports car , compared with just 16 % of adults 30 and over , according to the journal survey . young consumers prefer luxury cars by a 37 % to 28 % margin -- even though older buyers , because of their incomes , are more likely to actually purchase a luxury car . perhaps most striking , 35 % of households headed by people aged 18 to 44 have at least one foreign car . that 's true of only 14 % of households headed by someone 60 or older . generally , imports appeal most to americans who live in the west and are well-educated , affluent and , especially , young . `` for many baby boomers , buying a domestic car is a totally foreign experience , '' says christopher cedergren , auto-market analyst with j.d. power & co. of agoura hills , calif . such preferences persist even though many americans believe 0 differences between imported and domestic cars are diminishing . only 58 % of americans now believe that foreign cars get better gas mileage than domestic models , the journal survey found , down from 68 % in 1987 . some 46 % give foreign cars higher quality ratings , down from 50 % two years ago . on the other hand , only 42 % say 0 foreign cars are less comfortable than u.s. models , down from 55 % in 1987 . people in the automotive business disagree over how susceptible younger americans are to brand switching . `` once buying habits are formed , they 're very hard 0 to break , '' declares thomas mignanelli , executive vice president for nissan 's u.s. sales operations . but out on cobb parkway , ted negas sees it differently . `` the competition is so intense that an owner 's loyalty to a dealership or a car is virtually nonexistent , '' says mr. negas , vice president of ed voyles oldsmobile , one of the first dealerships 0 to locate on the strip . thus the very fickleness of baby boomers may make it possible to win them back , just as it was possible to lose them . the battle for customer loyalty is evident along the cobb parkway strip . ed voyles olds recently established a special section in the service department for owners whose cars are less than a year old , so they get quicker service . just down the street , chris volvo invites serious shoppers to test-drive a new volvo to any other dealership along the strip , and compare the cars side-by-side . manufacturers , too , are stretching further to lure buyers . gm 's cadillac division , ignoring detroit 's long-held maxim that safety does n't sell , is airing television commercials touting its cars ' safety features . cadillac may be on to something . some 60 % of the survey respondents said 0 they would buy anti-lock brakes even if they carry a medium or high price tag . more than 50 % felt the same way about air bags . both features appealed most to buyers under 45 . in contrast , dashboard computers , power seats and turbo-charged engines had little appeal . but even a little appeal has a lot of attraction these days . gm 's pontiac division is offering a turbo-charged v-6 engine on its grand prix model , even though it expects to sell only about 4,000 cars equipped with that option . the reason : items with narrow appeal can be important in a market as fragmented as today 's . americans spent more than $ 190 billion on new cars and trucks last year , and just 1 % of that market exceeded polaroid co. 's sales of $ 1.86 billion . `` even if it 's only 1 % , '' says gm 's mr. barabba , `` would you throw away sales the size of polaroid ? ''