does n't anybody here want to win this mayor 's race ? as they stumble and bumble toward election day two weeks from tomorrow , both democrat david dinkins and republican rudolph giuliani are in trouble . mr. dinkins , the manhattan borough president , can afford more bumbling and stumbling because he holds a comfortable 20-point lead in most of the public-opinion polls . but , in the past 10 days , he has taken a series of body blows to his pride and his reputation that could adversely affect his ability to govern this tumultuous city should he become new york 's first black mayor . ordinarily , a clever opponent would find a way 0 to capitalize on the other side 's misfortunes . but mr. giuliani , a celebrated prosecutor , has had difficulty switching from his crime-busting , finger-pointing mode to a political stance that suggests 0 he might know something about running this big , troubled city . and now , at the crucial moment , he 's running out of money . this is the nation 's biggest city and , traditionally , its mayor is the nation 's best-known urban politician . democrats hoped that mr. dinkins could become a highly visible national leader . republicans figured that in mr. giuliani , the nation 's best-known prosecutor , they had a chance for a huge upset in the heart of democratic territory and that they would pick up a new political star . but it has n't worked out that way . `` dinkins is a decent but sloppy guy , '' says david garth , veteran campaign consultant here who has always worked for mayor edward koch , defeated by mr. dinkins in the sept. 12 democratic primary . `` the alternative -- giuliani -- is ghastly . '' `` i guess 0 we 'll reluctantly go ahead and do it , vote for dinkins , '' says richard wade , a politically active professor who supported richard ravitch , an also-ran in the democratic primary . `` there 's nothing on the other side . '' `` we 're picking up steam , '' insists roger ailes , mr. giuliani 's media consultant , whose last big campaign helped put george bush in the white house . he adds : `` it just has n't gotten down to the engine room yet . '' but the steam may never reach the engine room . for , just as mr. giuliani latches on to an issue that has mr. dinkins reeling , his campaign desperately needs cash to keep mr. ailes 's commercials on the air beyond wednesday or thursday . to help out this week , the white house is dispatching chief of staff john sununu and three cabinet members -- hud 's jack kemp , transportation 's samuel skinner and treasury 's nicholas brady , according to peter powers , the giuliani campaign manager . for republicans who began this campaign with such high hopes , all of this is deeply frustrating . historically , new york is almost always in trouble . but the trouble 0 it faces now under democratic rule seems bigger and more daunting than anything 0 it has faced in the past . this year , the city faces a budget deficit that could become even bigger next year . and hardly surprising , many residents trying to cope with the city 's other problems are constantly on edge , one ethnic group scrapping with another . `` people were n't so happy in the 1930s , '' says thomas lessner , another local professor and the biographer of the legendary fiorello laguardia , the city 's fusion mayor who built a coalition 0 mr. giuliani hopes to emulate . `` but , at least , back then they did n't generally direct their anger at each other . '' the 62-year-old mr. dinkins , an ex-marine , has served as the city clerk and as manhattan borough president , a job with limited executive responsibilities -lrb- `` i defy you to come up with one major accomplishment of david dinkins , '' says mr. giuliani . -rrb- he defeated the contentious mr. koch in the democratic primary partly because he seemed to offer hope 0 he could heal the city 's racial and ethnic wounds . his general-election campaign is almost reagan-like , all muted pictures and comforting words . his theme is unity , decency , humanity , bringing new york together again . both candidates are negotiating about holding debates , but mr. dinkins is widely seen as the major obstacle for scheduling them . the 45-year-old mr. giuliani has run a negative campaign to pick up votes leaning to mr. dinkins . `` he 's got to get dinkins 's negatives up , '' says lee miringoff , director of the marist college institute of public opinion . `` but our polls show 0 voters do n't like the attack stuff . why , even 20 % of the republican vote is going to dinkins . '' `` it 's assault-weapons politics , '' says john siegal , mr. dinkins 's issues director , insisting 0 there is a strong racist undertone to the giuliani effort . for the giuliani forces , it 's a conundrum . on the one hand , mr. giuliani wants to cut into mr. dinkins 's credibility . on the other , he seeks to convince voters 0 he 's the new fiorello laguardia -- affable , good-natured and ready to lead new york out of the mess 0 it 's in . it has n't helped that he 's waffled on abortion and gay rights , sought the support of both the liberal and conservative parties -lrb- he won the liberal endorsement -rrb- and that he turned to comedian jackie mason for help with jewish voters . mr. mason left the campaign after telling reporters 0 mr. dinkins is `` a fancy'shvartzer ' with a moustache . '' shvartzer is a derogatory yiddish word for a black person . mr. dinkins concedes nothing in his ability to stumble and bumble . he can match jackie mason with his own robert `` sonny '' carson , an angry street organizer who was convicted of kidnapping in 1974 . the dinkins campaign paid mr. carson close to $ 10,000 to get out the vote on primary-election day . paper work on how it was spent is incomplete . mr. carson has been charged with being anti-semitic . asked about that the other day , he replied , `` anti-semitic ? i 'm anti-white . '' more troubling for mr. dinkins is his record in personal accounting . it began in 1973 , when he was being considered for deputy mayor , and a routine check unearthed the extraordinary fact that he had n't paid his income tax for the previous four years . `` i was always going to do it tomorrow , '' he explained 0 at the time . and now he 's busily trying to explain an arrangement in which he sold stock in inner city broadcasting co. , headed by his old friend and patron , percy sutton , to his son , david dinkins jr. , for $ 58,000 . he had valued the shares at more than $ 1 million two years earlier . he says 0 he sold the stock to avoid conflict-of-interest problems in his role as a voting member of the city 's board of estimate . he says 0 his son has n't paid for the shares . `` it looks like serious tax evasion , '' says mr. ailes , the giuliani media consultant . `` it follows the same pattern as his tax returns . he waits to talk about it until after he gets caught . '' `` he simply has n't explained why something worth a million dollars ended up worth $ 58,000 two years later , '' says mr. powers , the giuliani campaign manager . `` it 's ludicrous for him to suggest 0 it 's the difference between the'breakup ' value of the shares and their market value . '' so far though , no one -- not even former u.s. attorney giuliani -- has been able to pinpoint just what law mr. dinkins has broken or just what tax he has evaded . `` the crime goes to character , '' says ron maiorana , a consultant to the giuliani campaign . `` it 's serious stuff . he evades and ducks . he 's had a history of deception and this is the latest chapter . '' `` it makes people think , maybe this guy is n't so squeaky clean after all , '' says mr. garth , mayor koch 's media consultant . `` the result may turn out to be a lot closer than people think .