health clubs gear up for a graying clientele . although their ads picture curvy young people in skimpy outfits , club owners know 0 the future lies with the lumpier over-40 set . `` it 's a misconception that physical fitness is something for the young and middle-aged , '' says michael pacholik , sales manager of the la fitness club , diamond bar , calif . about 10 % to 15 % of members at atlanta 's holiday espre center are elderly , says 0 gerald williams , fitness consultant . `` most want cardiovascular conditioning ... the no. 1 way of reducing risk of heart disease . '' the association of quality clubs , which puts 1988 industry revenue at $ 5 billion , surveyed the health-conscious over-40 market and found that 43 % exercise regularly . michael hays , head of probody fitness , notes 0 an industry `` wash '' is in progress . `` clubs need to be run like restaurants where every square foot makes a dollar , '' he says . older people help profits by filling in `` downtime . '' he adds : `` the medical market and the fitness market parallel each other and are going to cross real soon . '' people on fixed incomes get a break at espre ; over 55 wins a 45 % discount at anaheim imperial health spa . `` hot '' topaz sparks regulator , jeweler concern over import of irradiated stones . a committee of gem dealers investigates the source of some `` hot '' blue topaz stones recently reported by a hong kong jewelry manufacturer . in the u.s. , radiation limits are set and monitored by the nuclear regulatory commission , which licenses reactors that process the topaz . the agency is working on licensing importers but does n't currently monitor imports . topaz , a translucent mineral that is often whitish when taken from the ground , can be turned blue by irradiation , which transforms it into a gemstone that looks like an aquamarine . `` the -lcb- stones -rcb- that were irradiated in the u.s. are safe , '' says john hickey , chief of the nrc operations branch , washington . `` we believe that the vast majority of imported material is safe . but there is a small risk that some were imported with high radiation levels . '' mr. hickey added that the stones found in hong kong are thought to carry double the u.s. radiation limit , although he noted that double or even triple the u.s. limit is `` still in the range of safe levels . '' some jewelers have geiger counters 0 to measure topaz radiation . capital travels to europe as 1992 unification nears . boston 's advent international raises $ 230 million from u.s. pension funds and other institutions 0 to invest in europe . other venture capitalists are already there : mmg patricof group and its alan patricof associates , new york ; burr , egan , deleage & co. , boston ; and san francisco 's hambrecht & quist have about $ 800 million 0 to invest in european companies . european venture capital funds total about $ 14 billion and are expected to continue growing 35 % annually . continentals believe that the strongest growth area will be southern europe . spain and italy are most often mentioned as the future economic hot spots . favored ventures include media , telecommunications and retailing . most popular acquisition method : the leveraged buy-out . family-owned firms that need cash to grow are attractive , says 0 john turner of matuschka gruppe , munich . an aids directory from the american foundation for aids research rates and reviews educational materials . `` learning aids '' lists films , pamphlets , brochures , videos and other educational data . the distributor is r.r. bowker , new york . suspect `` sales '' ads are challenged by the better business bureau of metropolitan new york . the bureau found that only two of six new york furniture stores could prove 0 their presale prices were higher . dracula 's busy this time of year , but a visit to his transylvania castle is part of a chicago-based unitours trip in the spring , presumably the count 's off-season . radio malaise draws the ear of the federal communications commission . am radio , which has been losing listeners to fm channels since the 1970s , approaches the 1990s with a diminished voice . but it may have a good listener in washington . the fcc plans to hear a day of testimony nov. 16 on the plight of am radio . the commission believes that improving am service would broaden listening selections and increase options for advertisers . the issues are also thought to be important to the fcc 's new chairman , alfred sikes , a former am broadcaster in his native missouri . the fm radio band , considered technically superior because it can carry stereo broadcasts , has cornered the airwaves for delivering music . am stereo remains largely undeveloped because it lacks a uniform delivery system . the national association of broadcasters in june adopted an agenda for revitalizing am radio that includes , among other things , pursuing further fcc action on selecting an am stereo standard and seeking a law requiring all stereo receivers to include am stereo . listeners turned to radios run on batteries for news when the san francisco earthquake and hurricane hugo cut power lines . briefs : a modern healthcare magazine article says 0 40 % of surveyed executives admitted falling asleep during formal presentations ... . lee co. , the jeans maker , celebrates its 100th anniversary with a hardcover yearbook featuring photos of its 10,000 employees .