next to kohlberg kravis roberts 's megabillion rjr nabisco deal , sci television is small fry . but the troubles of sci tv are a classic tale of the leveraged buy-out excesses of the 1980s , especially the asset-stripping game . sci tv , which expects to release a plan to restructure $ 1.3 billion of debt in the next day or so , is n't just another lbo that went bad after piling on debt -- though it did do that . the cable and tv station company was an lbo of an lbo , a set of assets that were leveraged twice , enabling the blue-chip buy-out king henry kravis in 1987 to take more than $ 1 billion of cash out of the com - pany . sci tv 's buy-out was an ace in the hole for mr. kravis and for investors in kkr partnerships . but it has left holders of sci tv 's junk bonds holding the bag , including some heavyweights that kkr might need to finance future deals , such as kemper financial services , first executive , columbia savings & loan and prudential insurance co. of america . some junk-holders are said to be considering legal action against kkr or moves to force sci tv into bankruptcy court . and kkr 's majority partner in sci tv 's buy-out , nashville , tenn. , entrepreneur george gillett , also is said to be very unhappy . sci tv 's six stations once were part of storer communications . kkr loaded up the cable and television company with debt in an 1985 buy-out , then later sold storer 's cable operations at a fat profit . in 1987 , kkr for the second time piled debt onto storer 's tv stations , selling them for $ 1.3 billion to a new entity that was 45%-owned by kkr and 55%-owned by gillett corp. , which now operates the sci tv stations . in this second lbo , kkr with one hand took more than $ 1 billion of cash out of the tv company 's assets and moved it into the storer cable operations , making them more valuable in a 1988 sale . -lrb- storer also took $ 125 million of junior sci tv bonds as partial payment for the tv assets . -rrb- with the other hand , kkr put back into sci tv less than 10 % of the cash 0 it had taken out , buying sci tv common and preferred shares . so , while kkr today has an estimated $ 250 million sunk in now-shaky sci tv , including equity and debt , the lbo firm still is $ 1 billion ahead on the sci tv buy-out after taking cash up front . on storer as a whole , kkr racked up compound annual returns of 60 % in the three years 0 it owned storer . meanwhile , mr. gillett risks losing his entire equity investment of about $ 100 million in sci tv if the company ca n't be restructured . overall , mr. gillett 's holding company , gillett holdings , is heavily indebted and , except for its vail mountain resorts , is n't doing very well . with the tv business falling on hard times in recent years , analysts say that if sci tv had to be liquidated today , it might fetch 30 % less than in the 1987 buy-out , wiping out most of the company 's junk-holders and its stockholders . meanwhile , sci tv can barely pay its cash interest bill , and to stay out of bankruptcy court it must soon reschedule a lot of bank loans and junk bonds that have fallen due . sci tv 's grace period for paying its bills is due to expire nov. 16 . it now is quietly circulating among creditors a preliminary plan to restructure debt . negotiations `` have started con - structively , but that 's not to say 0 we like this particular offer , '' says wilbur ross of rothschild inc. , adviser to sci tv junk-holders . no major player in the sci tv deal will talk publicly . but it 's understood that mr. kravis is disappointed that mr. gillett did n't manage to boost sci tv 's operating profit after the buy-out . mr. kravis apparently thinks 0 sci tv can survive if lenders extend its debt payments until tv stations rise in value again , allowing sci tv to sell assets to pay debt . mr. gillett is said to be proud of his operating record ; he has lifted some stations ' ratings and turned around a detroit station . as for junk-holders , they 're discovering 0 it can be a mistake to take the other side of a trade by kkr . the bonds of sci tv now are being quoted at prices ranging from only five cents to about 60 cents on the dollar , according to r.d. smith & co. in new york , which trades distressed securities . people who have seen sci tv 's restructuring plan say 0 it offers concessions by kkr and gillett corp . they would both give part of their combined $ 50 million in common equity in sci tv to holders of sci tv 's $ 488 million of junk bonds , as a carrot 0 to persuade them to accept new bonds that might reduce the value of their claims on the company . but some militant sci tv junk-holders say 0 that 's not enough . they contend that sci tv 's equity now is worthless . they add that it is n't costing kkr anything to give up equity because of its big up-front cash profit on the buy-out , which they think 0 contributed to sci tv 's current problems . kemper , the biggest holder of senior sci tv bonds , has refused to join the bond-holders committee and is said to be reviewing its legal options . to protect their claims , some junk-holders want kkr and perhaps mr. gillett to invest new money in sci tv , perhaps $ 50 million or more . one investment banker who is n't involved in the deal says 0 sci tv needs at least $ 50 million of new equity to survive . junk-holders say 0 they have a stick 0 to beat kkr with : `` the threat of bankruptcy is a legitimate tool '' 0 to extract money from kkr , says 0 one big sci tv holder . this could be the first major bankruptcy-law proceeding for kkr , he adds 0 . a big bankruptcy-court case might tarnish kkr 's name , and provide new fuel for critics of lbos in washington and elsewhere . but others say 0 junk-holders have nothing 0 to gain by putting sci tv into bankruptcy-law proceedings . while kkr does n't control sci tv which is unusual for a kkr investment -- it clearly has much deeper pockets than mr. gillett . bankruptcy specialists say 0 mr. kravis set a precedent for putting new money in sour lbos recently when kkr restructured foundering seaman furniture , doubling kkr 's equity stake . but with seaman , kkr was only trying to salvage its original investment , says 0 bankruptcy investor james rubin of sass lamle rubin in new york . by contrast , kkr probably has already made all the money 0 it can on sci tv . and people who know mr. kravis say 0 he is n't in a hurry to pour more money into sci tv .