ready to review the riskiness of your investment portfolio ? first , a pop quiz . when you think of the words `` risk '' and `` investment , '' what 's the specific peril that comes to mind ? pencils down . if you 're like most people , you said 0 it 's a holding that goes completely sour -- maybe a bond that defaults or a stock whose value disappears in a bankruptcy proceeding . `` people tend to see risk primarily on that one dimension , '' says timothy kochis , national director of personal financial planning for accountants deloitte , haskins & sells . but therein lies another aspect of investment risk : the hazard of shaping your portfolio to avoid one or more types of risk and being blind-sided by others . this is clearly not good news to all you people who sleep like babies every night , lulled by visions of your money sitting risk-free in six-month cds . risk wears many disguises , and investments that are low in one type of obvious risk can be distressingly high in other , less obvious kinds . u.s. treasury bonds , for example , are supersafe when it comes to returning money at maturity . but their value as investments can be decimated by inflation , which erodes the purchasing power of bonds ' fixed-dollar interest payments . risk is also a function of time . when financial professionals measure risk mathematically , they usually focus on the volatility of short-term returns . stocks are much riskier than treasury bills , for example , because the range in performance from the best years to the worst is much wider . that is usually measured by the standard deviation , or divergence , of annual results from the average return over time . but investors who are preoccupied with short-term fluctuations may be paying too little attention to another big risk -- not generating enough money to meet long-term financial and life-style goals . for instance , some investors have sworn off stocks since the 1987 market crash ; last friday 's debacle only reinforced those feelings . but the stock market , despite some stomach-churning declines , has far outperformed other securities over extended periods . by retreating to the apparent security of , say , money-market funds , investors may not be earning enough investment return to pay for a comfortable retirement . `` that 's the biggest risk of all -- the risk of not meeting your objectives , '' says steven b. enright , a new york financial planner with seidman financial services . as a result , financial advisers say 0 they take several steps when evaluating the riskiness of clients ' portfolios . they estimate the return 0 a person 's current portfolio is likely to generate over time , along with a standard deviation that suggests how much the return will vary year by year . they try to figure out the long-term results 0 the person needs to meet major goals . and they eyeball types of risk that are not easily quantified . the portfolios of two hypothetical families , one a couple at retirement age and another a two-income couple at age 45 , illustrate several types of risk that investors need to consider . for instance , the insured municipal bonds that dominate the older couple 's portfolio were probably selected in large part for their low repayment risk . but they expose the holders to a lot of inflation risk and interest-rate risk . the younger couple 's stockholdings involve more risk than a diversified stock portfolio because the bulk of the money is in a single issue . note that the younger couple 's portfolio has a higher expected annual return , 10.1 % vs. 8.8 % , as calculated by seidman financial services , which is the financial-planning affiliate of bdo seidman . that largely reflects the heavy stockholdings . but one price paid for the higher expected return is greater short-term volatility , as reflected in the higher standard deviation that seidman estimates for the younger couple 's portfolio . -lrb- here 's how to interpret a standard deviation figure : take the expected return and add one standard deviation to it . then take the expected return and subtract one standard deviation . in two of three years , the actual result should fall within that range if all the assumptions were accurate . then add and subtract two standard deviations to get a wider range . there 's a 95 % probability 0 any year 's result will fall in the range . -rrb- of course , the greater volatility of the younger couple 's portfolio does n't necessarily mean 0 those investments are riskier in terms of meeting the holders ' long-term goals . indeed , the older couple 's portfolio could actually be riskier in that sense if the expected return wo n't generate enough dollars to meet their spending plans . `` they may feel emotionally secure now because they are not heavily in the stock market , '' says john h. cammack , a financial planner with alexandra armstrong advisors inc. in washington . `` but they may pay a price 10 or 20 years in the future . '' ms. slater reports on personal finance from the wall street journal 's new york bureau . when it comes to investing , trying to weigh risk and reward can seem like throwing darts blindfolded : investors do n't know the actual returns that securities will deliver , or the ups and downs that will occur along the way . looking to the past can provide some clues . over several decades , for instance , investors who put up with the stock market 's gyrations earned returns far in excess of those on bonds and `` cash '' investments like treasury bills . but while history can suggest what is reasonable 0 to expect there 's no guarantee that the past will repeat itself . for instance , some analysts believe 0 bond returns and volatility have moved permanently closer to those of the stock market . and returns on cash investments may continue to exceed inflation by a wider margin than they did over the long-term past . portfolio a : retired couple , age 65 ; $ 400,000 portfolio . portfolio b : two-income couple , age 45 ; $ 150,000 portfolio .