bureaucrats may deserve their bad reputation , after all . matthew lesko , something of a professional defender of government , thought 0 he had a sure-fire winner last summer when he offered $ 5,000 for the best `` verifiable story of 250 words or less about how a government bureaucrat helped you . '' he sent out thousands of news releases from his kensington , md. , office . he plugged the contest on larry king 's radio show , on pat sajak 's television show and on the c-span cable television network . he talked about it in every speech 0 he made as he roamed the country promoting his books , which dispense handy how-to advice on using government information for fun and profit . mr. lesko figured 0 he would be flooded with entries by now . after all , he says 0 , `` we 've got like 15 million bureaucrats . '' and in addition to the $ 5,000 , he has promised the winner a `` my favorite bureaucrat '' plaque and offered each of two runners-up $ 500 . so far , though , mr. lesko has received only one entry . to make matters worse , the lone nomination came from another bureaucrat : a woman from the new york state department of taxation and finance who nominated her boss . mr. lesko , who is making the rules as he goes , has determined that bureaucrats are eligible for nomination by other bureaucrats . but he says 0 he would prefer to get nominations from rank-and-file folks . he admits that he has n't had much luck generating free publicity for his contest . newspapers , including this one , have generally ignored his news releases . talk show hosts quickly change the topic . but mr. lesko 's staff is beginning to wonder whether there is n't some larger phenomenon foiling the contest . `` is the government not helping anybody ? '' asks toni murray , an assistant to mr. lesko . mr. lesko himself is n't yet prepared to accept that explanation . `` people hate to write , '' he says . `` maybe people do n't believe 0 i want to give this money away . '' maybe americans are just so annoyed with government that they are n't interested in admitting that bureaucrats come in handy once in a while . if he sponsored a contest on how a bureaucrat mishandled something , mr. lesko admits 0 , `` i 'd get 5,000 entries . '' now there 's an idea .