the stock market 's woes spooked currency traders but prompted a quiet little party among bond investors . prices of long-term treasury bonds moved inversely to the stock market as investors sought safety amid growing evidence 0 the economy is weakening . but the shaky economic outlook and the volatile stock market forced the dollar lower against major currencies . the bond market got an early boost from the opening-hour sell-off in stocks . that rout was triggered by ual corp. 's announcement late monday that the proposed management-labor buy-out had collapsed . the 80-point decline in the dow jones industrial average during the morning trading session touched off a flight to safety that saw investors shifting assets from stocks to treasury bonds . at its strongest , the treasury 's benchmark 30-year bond rose more than a point , or more than $ 10 for each $ 1,000 face amount . as the stock market recovered some of its losses later in the day , bond prices retreated . but analysts said 0 the combination of a second consecutive decline in monthly durable-goods orders and lackluster mid-october auto sales helped prop up the treasury market . a slowing economy and the implication of lower inflation and interest rates tend to bolster bond prices . on the surface , the decline in september durable goods -- only 0.1 % -- did n't appear very weak . but orders for non-defense capital goods , a precursor of future plant and equipment spending , were off 5.6 % after falling 10.3 % in august . auto makers reported that mid-october sales were running at an annual rate of about 5.8 million units , far less than the 6.6 million units 0 analysts had expected . taken together , the auto-sales and durable-goods reports confirmed perceptions that the economy is bogging down . although analysts do n't expect the federal reserve to ease credit policy soon , reports like those yesterday help build the case for lower rates . now bond investors are looking toward next week 's report from national purchasing managers and the government 's october employment report as potentially prompting the fed to lower rates . the stock market 's precipitous drop frightened foreign investors , who quickly bid the dollar lower . but as stock prices recovered some of the early losses , so did the u.s. currency . although dealers said 0 investors are becoming more bearish toward the dollar in the wake of the stock market 's recent troubles and as the u.s. economy weakens , the dollar ended down only modestly . in major market activity : bond prices rose . the treasury 's benchmark 30-year bond gained nearly half a point , or about $ 5 for each $ 1,000 face amount . the yield on the issue slipped to 7.89 % . the dollar retreated . in late new york trading the currency was quoted at 1.8355 marks and 141.45 yen , compared with 1.8470 marks and 141.90 yen monday .