out of the mouths of revolutionaries are coming words of moderation . here , at a soccer stadium near the black township of soweto yesterday , were eight leaders of the african national congress , seven of whom had spent most of their adult lives in prison for sabotage and conspiracy to overthrow the government . here were more than 70,000 anc supporters , gathering for the first anc rally inside south africa since the black liberation movement was banned in 1960 . here was the state security appartus poised to pounce on any words or acts of provocation , let alone revolution . but the words that boomed over the loudspeakers bore messages of peace , unity , negotiation and discipline . `` we stand for peace today and we will stand for peace tomorrow , '' said walter sisulu , the anc 's former secretary general who , along with five of his colleagues , served 26 years in prison before being released two weeks ago . some members of the huge crowd shouted `` viva peace , viva . '' these are curious times in south african politics . the government and the anc , the bitterest of enemies , are engaged in an elaborate mating dance designed to entice each other to the negotiating table . pretoria releases the anc leaders , most of whom were serving life sentences , and allows them to speak freely , hoping that the anc will abandon its use of violence . the anc leaders speak in tones of moderation , emphasizing discipline , hoping 0 the government will be encouraged to take further steps , such as freeing nelson mandela , the most prominent anc figure , and unbanning the organization . the government of president f.w. de klerk is using this situation to improve its international image and head off further economic sanctions . meanwhile , the many organizations inside the country that back the anc are taking the opportunity to regain their strength and mobilize their supporters even though the state of emergency , which has severely curtailed black opposition , remains in force . the result is that the unthinkable and illogical are happening . six months ago , government approval for an anc rally was inconceivable . equally inconceivable is that the anc , given the chance to hold a rally , would extend a hand , albeit warily , to the government . in a message read out at the rally , exiled anc president oliver tambo , who ca n't legally be quoted in south africa , said 0 the country was at a crossroads and that mr. de klerk `` may yet earn a place among the peacemakers of our country '' if he chooses a `` path of genuine political settlement . '' still , this does n't mean that either the government or the anc is changing stripes -- or that either has moved significantly closer to the other . the government may ease repression in some areas , but it still keeps a tight grip in others . for instance , it releases mr. sisulu without conditions , yet his son , zwelakhe , a newspaper editor , is restricted to his home much of the day and is n't allowed to work as a journalist . the anc vows to keep up pressure on the government . speakers yesterday called on foreign governments to increase sanctions against pretoria and urged supporters inside the country to continue defying emergency restrictions and racial segregation , known as apartheid . `` we can not wait on the government to make changes at its own pace , '' mr. sisulu said . because the anc remains banned , both the government , which approved the rally , and the organizers , who orchestrated it , denied 0 it was an anc rally . they both called it a `` welcome home '' gathering . nevertheless , an anc rally by any other name is still an anc rally . the recently released leaders sat high atop a podium in one section of the stadium stands . behind them was a huge anc flag and an even bigger sign that said `` anc lives , anc leads . '' next to them was the red flag of the outlawed south african communist party , which has long been an anc ally . in the stands , people waved anc flags , wore anc t-shirts , sang anc songs and chanted anc slogans . `` today , '' said mr. sisulu , `` the anc has captured the center stage of political life in south africa . '' as a police helicopter circled overhead , mr. sisulu repeated the anc 's demands on the government to create a climate for negotiations : release all political prisoners unconditionally ; lift all bans and restrictions on individuals and organizations ; remove all troops from the black townships ; end the state of emergency , and cease all political trials and political executions . if these conditions are met , he said 0 , the anc would be prepared to discuss suspending its guerrilla activities . `` there can be no question of us unilaterally abandoning the armed struggle , '' he said . `` to date , we see no clear indication that the government is serious about negotiations . all their utterances are vague . '' echoing a phrase from mr. de klerk , mr. sisulu said , `` let all of us who love this country engage in the task of building a new south africa .