but worries about 1990 . with most legislatures adjourned for the year , small business is tallying its scorecard . much of its attention was spent fighting organized labor 's initiatives on issues 0 the small-business community traditionally opposes -- from raising state minimum wage levels to mandating benefits in health plans . while results were mixed in many states , `` small business got by fairly well , '' concludes don l. robinson , associate director of the national federation of independent business , the largest small-business organization . five states -- oregon , rhode island , new hampshire , iowa and wisconsin -- passed bills 0 to boost the minimum wage , but measures in 19 other states were defeated . oregon 's rate will rise to $ 4.75 an hour , the nation 's highest , in jan. 1 , 1991 . iowa 's will be the second highest -- at $ 4.65 an hour in january 1992 -- but small-business lobbyists won an exclusion for tiny concerns and a lower training rate . in 17 central states , one small-business count shows 0 lawmakers adopted only three of 46 bills mandating health coverage or parental leave . the illinois legislature narrowly passed a parental-leave bill , which gov. james thompson vetoed , and iowa and tennessee amended laws 0 to require that employers pay for breast-cancer exams . small business is bracing for an avalanche of similar proposals next year . `` those kinds of issues always keep coming back , '' says robert beckwith , who manages the illinois chamber of commerce 's small-business office . despite victories this year , small business fears losing parental-leave war . only two states -- vermont and washington -- this year joined five others requiring private employers to grant leaves of absence to employees with newborn or adopted infants . similar proposals were defeated in at least 15 other states . but small business , which generally detests government-mandated benefits , has taken note of the growing number of close votes . `` it 's just a matter of time before the tide turns , '' says one midwestern lobbyist . consequently , small business is taking more `` pro-active '' steps 0 to counter mandated leaves . in pennsylvania , small businesses are pushing for a voluntary alternative ; they favor a commission that would develop sample leave policies that employers could adopt . they also support a tax credit for employers 0 to offset the cost of hiring and training workers who temporarily replace employees on parental leave . in 1990 , the issue is expected to be especially close in alaska , california , michigan , new york , pennsylvania and illinois . `` we 'll be playing a lot of defense , especially in the midwest and northeast , '' says jim buente of the nfib . in los angeles , more small businesses ponder adopting a child-care policy . triggering the re-examination is a recent city council decision to give preference in letting city contracts to suppliers with a stated policy on child care for their employees . the preferential treatment even applies to awarding small contracts under $ 25,000 and consulting and temporary services -- which often go to the smaller concerns . firms are permitted wide flexibility in the child-care arrangements 0 they provide . council member joy picus , the measure 's chief advocate , considers it part of a `` pro-family policy '' that makes los angeles a leader in `` humanizing the workplace . '' november ballots will contain few referendum or initiative issues that especially affect small business . in san francisco , small businesses are urging passage of a local initiative 0 to build a new $ 95 million downtown baseball stadium ; they believe 0 it will spur retail sales and hotel-restaurant business . but in washington state , small business generally opposes an initiative 0 to boost spending on children 's programs by $ 360 million , fearing 0 the state 's 7.8 % sales tax will be raised to finance the outlays . dialing dollars : small businesses in suburban chicago are discovering that an area-code switch nov. 11 -- to 708 from the familiar 312 -- wo n't be without some costs as they alter stationery , among other things , and notify customers . wessels & pautsch , a small st. charles law firm , plans to mail 500 customers a list of its lawyers ' new phone and fax numbers as well as updated rolodex cards . but many owners plan to practice frugality -- crossing out the old code and writing in the new one until their stock runs out . even print-shop operator clay smith of naperville wo n't discard his old supply . -lrb- he reports 0 his business is up slightly from customers replacing old stock . -rrb- california , a trend-setter in franchising rules , stirs a controversy . with some new rules , state officials say 0 they made it easier -- and faster -- to sell new franchises whose terms stray from those in state-registered contracts . previously , regulators insisted that franchisers pre-register such changes with the state -- a costly process taking at least six weeks . now some negotiated sales that meet a series of tests do n't have to be pre-registered . for instance , franchisers no longer must pre-register sales to aspiring franchisees who qualify as `` sophisticated purchasers . '' such buyers must have a minimum net worth of $ 1 million , $ 200,000 annual income , or recent experience in the business area of the franchise being sold . but critics consider the changes regressive . lewis g. rudnick , a chicago lawyer who represents franchisers , contends 0 california is narrowly limiting -- rather than expanding -- opportunities for negotiating sales . he argues 0 california regulators historically have misinterpreted their law -- and he says 0 negotiated sales that are n't pre-registered have been legal all along . san francisco lawyer timothy h. fine , who represents franchisees , insists 0 california 's cautiousness helps protect franchisees from crafty sales negotiators who push unlawful clauses . small talk : a new maryland law frees store owners of liability if a customer trips or otherwise gets hurt on the way to the restroom ... . only 4 % of missouri small businesses surveyed say 0 they 've tested an employee or applicant for drug or alcohol use ... . by 52%-36 % , tennessee nfib members favor laws 0 to limit foreign ownership of land and facilities in the state .