in a last-ditch effort to keep its sales force and customer base , integrated resources inc. said 0 it agreed in principle to transfer ownership of its broker-dealer subsidiary to two of its top executives . the financial-services firm , struggling since summer to avoid a bankruptcy-law filing after missing interest payments on about $ 1 billion of debt , will retain the right to regain the subsidiary . it said 0 it will exercise that right only if it sells substantially all of its other core businesses . it also can sell the right to regain the subsidiary to another party . also , the broker-dealer subsidiary , integrated resources equity corp. , was renamed royal alliance associates inc . because of integrated 's widely reported troubles , the unit 's representatives had been requesting a name change . royal alliance , to which the 3,900 representatives ' licenses will be transferred , is a shell company 0 integrated owns . in the transaction , integrated will transfer 100 % ownership of the subsidiary to gerard m. lavin , executive vice president of integrated and head of back-office operations at the subsidiary , and gary w. krat , executive vice president of the parent and president of the subsidiary . integrated will pump $ 3.5 million to $ 4 million into royal alliance as initial funding . in an interview , mr. krat said that based on criteria 0 yet to be determined , he expects to distribute 49 % of royal alliance to the representatives , who sell integrated 's insurance and mutual-fund products . if integrated regains royal alliance , the representatives will retain their 49 % ownership . mr. krat indicated that completion of the transaction could take several weeks , and it was n't immediately clear what would happen to the broker-dealer subsidiary if integrated files for bankruptcy-law protection in the meantime . the subsidiary is n't expected to be profitable for at least one year . if integrated regains the unit , it would receive any profit 0 the unit reports , even while the unit is independent . if the deal closes , the two officers will draw salaries from the independent operation , not from integrated . many aspects of the agreement were worked out wednesday in chicago , when integrated senior managers met with about 150 representatives . `` i think 0 it was something that we and they thought 0 was constructive , '' said stephen d. weinroth , chairman and co-chief executive officer of integrated . integrated made its announcement after the market closed . in new york stock exchange composite trading , integrated shares closed at $ 1.125 , up 12.5 cents .