ducks . if the white house spots one , it intends to fire a veto at it . ducks are this season 's word for new taxes , under omb director richard darman 's formulation that `` if it looks like a duck , walks like a duck and quacks like a duck , it 's a duck . '' george bush is quite clear : no new ducks . but what about all those non-duck ducks flapping over washington ? we see a whole flock of programs that will impose significant costs on the american economy in the form of burdensome regulation and higher liabilities . federal child care -lrb- quack -rrb- . the clean air bill -lrb- quack -rrb- . the disabled-workers bill -lrb- quack , quack -rrb- . the bush white house is breeding non-duck ducks the same way 0 the nixon white house did : it hops on an issue that is unopposable -- cleaner air , better treatment of the disabled , better child care . it comes up with a toned-down version of a democratic proposal . the bill gets signed into law and then the administration watches helplessly , wondering where all the `` unexpected '' costs came from . consider , for instance , the very fat fowl known as federalized child care . the president came up with a good bill , but now may end up signing the awful bureaucratic creature hatched on capitol hill . it would create 38,000 local day-care commissions , answerable to the department of health and human services . they 'd determine where parents could store their kids during the day , and they 'd regulate the storage facilities . the initial costs are said to be in the $ 2 billion a year range , but that 's only the beginning . new entitlements tend to grow , creating a rationale for new taxes . quack . the administration claims that its clean air bill will cost businesses between $ 14 billion and $ 19 billion annually , but economist michael evans estimates that the costs for firms will actually be in the $ 60 billion a year range . the house bill also distorts economic efficiency in all sorts of perverse ways . for example , the administration proposal imposes extremely tough emissions standards on new power plants . so instead of building more efficient modern plants , utilities stick scrubbers on the old plants . the money spent on scrubbers is diverted from planned research on new , cleaner technology . the bill also imposes the california auto-emissions standards on all cars nationwide , as if a car registered in big sky , montana , needed to be as clean as one driven in los angeles . proponents of the nationwide standards say 0 the cost for car buyers would be about $ 500 per car . other analysts say 0 that estimate is low . quack . nobody knows how many billions of dollars the americans with disabilities act will cost , because nobody knows what the bill entails . it is an intentionally vague document that will create a wave of litigation . judges will write the real bill as suits roll through the courts . lawyers will benefit . private companies , and ultimately their customers , will end up footing the huge bill . the effect of nixon era non-duck ducks was an economy clogged up with regulations and distortions . all this was recognized and documented in the succeeding years by economists , some of whom worked in the reagan administration to lift this burden from the american people , states and local governments . running for president in 1980 and 1988 , george bush also persuasively diagnosed the economic stagnation of the 1970s . in fact , during last year 's campaign , the entire nation constantly heard mr. bush tout his accomplishments as head of the task force on regulatory relief . `` government continues to inhibit the productivity of our citizenry and the international competitiveness of american business , '' the vice president declared when he was head of the task force . but with the impending passage of these new programs , mr. bush will surely be sending many people hurtling back into the regulatory thicket that he had helped cut back . by 1986 , the number of federal regulators was down to about 103,000 . then it turned up , and by one estimate the number will be up to about 109,000 regulators by next year . holding the dam on taxes is the most important task of the bush presidency . we would have thought by now , though , that there was a significant core of people involved in government life who understood that direct taxation is n't the only way 0 to slow down an economy . it is merely the most obvious . what is even more ironic is that all over the world nations are learning that well-intentioned public programs often backfire . but while they are unloading these burdens , the united states is close to creating three more big ones . the bush administration ought to be setting aside some of its buckshot for the non-duck ducks .