after years of quarreling over bonn 's `` ostpolitik '' , west germany and the u.s. appear to have shifted onto a united course in eastern europe . bonn and washington have taken a leading role in aid for the reformist countries , pledging billions of dollars in fresh credit and forgiving old debt while urging other industrial nations to follow suit . both hope to encourage pressure for change in east bloc countries still ruled by stalinist holdouts by arranging liberal financial aid and trade benefits for poland , hungary and , to a lesser extent , the soviet union . west german officials also have the special goal of holding out hope for east germany 's fledgling reform movement . `` the change taking place in the soviet union , poland and hungary has aroused new hope in both german states that reforms will be undertaken in -lcb- east germany -rcb- , and that relations between the two german states , too , will get better , '' said foreign minister hans-dietrich genscher . addressing a conference of the new york-based institute for east-west security studies in frankfurt yesterday , mr. genscher said , `` history will judge us by whether we have taken the opportunities that emerge from these reforms . '' the ultimate aim of western support for east bloc reforms , he said 0 , is to create `` an equitable and stable peaceful order in europe from the atlantic to the urals . '' mr. genscher and u.s. secretary of commerce robert a. mosbacher , in separate speeches at the conference , appealed for more western contributions to economic reforms and business development in hungary and poland . bonn and washington are leading supporters of poland 's request for a $ 1 billion stand-by credit from the international monetary fund . `` we want the bold programs of market development and political freedom in hungary and in poland to succeed . we are prepared to support those changes , '' said mr. mosbacher . u.s. curbs on the exports of sensitive technology to east bloc countries will remain in place , however . meanwhile , the u.s. house of representatives yesterday approved an $ 837.5 million aid package for poland and hungary that more than doubles the amount 0 president bush had requested . the package was brought to the house just 15 days after it was introduced , indicating congress 's eagerness to reward poland and hungary for their moves toward democracy and freemarket economic reforms . the legislation , approved 345-47 and sent to the senate , establishes two enterprise funds , 0 to be governed by independent nonprofit boards , which will make loans and investments in new business ventures in hungary and poland . the polish fund would be seeded with $ 160 million , the hungarian fund with $ 40 million . in addition , a group of 24 industrialized countries , including the u.s. and japan and coordinated by the european community commission , has promised poland and hungary trade advice and a line of credit equivalent to $ 1.11 billion through the european investment bank , while the ec plans $ 222 million in direct aid . when chancellor helmut kohl travels to poland nov. 9 , he is expected to take with him a promise of three billion west german marks -lrb- $ 1.6 billion -rrb- in new credit guarantees for industrial projects . last week , bonn agreed to reschedule 2.5 billion marks in polish debt that came due last year . in addition , a one billion mark credit dating from 1974 is to be written off . poland 's plan to switch to a free-market economy by 1991 is hampered by a foreign debt load of $ 39.2 billion . west germany also has increased its credit guarantees to hungary by 500 million marks to 1.5 billion marks as the emerging democratic state rushes through its own economic reforms , including a broad privatization of state-owned industry and tax incentives for industrial investment . an additional 500 million marks in credit-backing was promised by the west german state governments of bavaria and baden-wuerttemberg . deutsche bank ag , which last year arranged a three billion mark credit for the soviet union , is now moving to become the first west german bank 0 to set up independent business offices in hungary and poland as they shift to free-market economies . a maxim of frankfurt banking holds that wherever deutsche bank goes , other west german banks follow . indeed , at least four other west german banks are believed to be making inquiries .