law firms that have feasted and grown on the revenue from mergers and acquisitions work are feeling the squeeze as that work declines . the disarray in the junk-bond market that began last month with a credit crunch at campeau corp. and the failure of banks to deliver financing for a leveraged buy-out of united airlines parent ual corp. has reverberated through some of the nation 's largest law firms . while it is still too early to tell whether the dearth of takeover activity is only temporary , many lawyers say 0 their firms are bracing for lower revenue from merger work , which has been so lucrative in the past . much of this work was done for higher fees than other legal work and was not generally billed by the hour . if deals take longer to complete and there are fewer of them 0 to do , `` you ca n't bill the same kind of premium as when deals took a few weeks from start to finish , '' says 0 one lawyer at a large new york firm . `` we 're planning on a rip-roaring year in 1989 , but next year we 'll be another story , '' said robert freedman , a partner at simpson thacher & bartlett . `` we 're settling down to a less active period . '' lawyers at such firms as sullivan & cromwell ; willkie farr & gallagher ; wachtell , lipton , rosen & katz ; and fried , frank , harris , shriver & jacobson all say 0 they , too , have experienced a significant slowdown , particularly during the past few weeks . `` everyone is waiting to see if deals can be done at sensible prices and if money is available , '' said jack nusbaum , co-chairman of willkie farr . `` it 's hard to know right now if the change is fundamental or cyclical . '' some lawyers say 0 the slump , while more obvious in recent weeks , began earlier this year . dennis block , a partner at the new york firm of weil , gotshal & manges , said that in the first eight months of this year , 89 hostile offers were launched , compared with 157 for the first eight months of what 's more , he said 0 , `` transactions are taking a much longer time to conclude and many fall apart for lack of financing '' and more stringent scrutiny by state courts . lawyers also say 0 an erratic stock market and uncertain financing conditions have sharply reduced the number of lucrative big deals likely to be proposed . still , some lawyers say 0 the mergers slowdown has n't affected foreign buyers as much as domestic ones . `` we just took another floor for our london offices , '' said joseph flom of the new york firm of skadden , arps , slate , meagher & flom . davis polk & wardwell also said 0 its international clients are keeping mergers and acquisitions partners busy . `` european companies are looking to buy american ones , '' said henry king , the managing partner at that firm . `` but the question is whether things 0 people are looking at will actually surface in live transactions in light of the current market conditions . '' murder threat charged in haas securities corp . stock-manipulation trial . in the trial of former haas securities chairman eugene laff , the defense accused one of the government 's chief witnesses of threatening to kill mr. laff . mr. laff 's attorney , john lang , filed a memorandum asking that the trial record include a secretly taped conversation in which the witness , henry lorin , told a haas stockbroker that mr. laff should be killed . the conversation was taped by federal investigators in what mr. lang said was an effort to get mr. lorin to implicate mr. laff . in his opening arguments last week in federal court in new york , mr. lang told the jury that mr. lorin was the `` real master criminal '' behind the stock manipulation , and that mr. laff knew nothing about it . in march , mr. laff was indicted on 15 counts of conspiracy , mail and securities fraud , and obstructing an investigation by the securities and exchange commission . the government has charged that mr. lorin and mr. laff were part of a conspiracy to maintain the prices of certain stocks at artificially high prices . mr. lorin , a stock promoter , pleaded guilty to the stock-manipulation charges in april and agreed to cooperate with the government 's investigation of mr. laff . during his cross examination of mr. lorin , mr. lang read from the transcripts of a conversation that was taped oct. 20 , 1988 . stanley aslanian , the haas broker who agreed to carry a hidden microphone during the conversation , also has pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit securities violations in the stock manipulation and agreed to cooperate . according to the transcript , mr. lorin said 0 mr. laff should be killed after mr. aslanian told him that information given to mr. laff by another conspirator could jeopardize the stock scheme . mr. lorin then repeated the threat , and mr. aslanian urged him not to say such things . from the parts of the transcript read by mr. lang , it was unclear what exactly mr. lorin feared 0 might happen . when asked for a copy of the transcript , mr. lang said 0 judge thomas p. griesa had instructed him not to release it or the memorandum . during the trial , mr. lang asked mr. lorin whether he had been so upset `` that you considered killing mr. laff ? ... is n't it true that you were so worked up that framing mr. laff for this crime was the least that you planned for him ? '' mr. lorin responded , `` no . '' when mr. lang asked mr. lorin whether he had taken steps 0 to have mr. laff killed , the witness again said no . peter lieb , the assistant u.s. attorney prosecuting the case , declined to comment on the trial . trustee who monitored settlement payments to dalkon shield claimants quits . stephen a. saltzburg , one of five trustees appointed to monitor payments to women injured by the dalkon shield intrauterine contraceptive , resigned , citing personal reasons . mr. saltzburg , who teaches evidence at the university of virginia school of law and was a deputy assistant attorney general in the u.s. justice department until august , submitted his resignation earlier this month to federal judge robert r. merhige jr. , in richmond , va . judge merhige is overseeing the bankruptcy-law reorganization of a.h. robins co. , the company that manufactured the shield . in a letter monday to mr. saltzburg , the judge said 0 he would `` reluctantly '' accept the resignation . the $ 2.38 billion dalkon shield claimants trust was established as part of a.h. robins ' bankruptcy-reorganization plan to resolve injury claims arising from use of the shield . american home products corp. proposes to acquire the company . the remaining four trustees on the claimants trust have 60 days 0 to nominate a successor to mr. saltzburg . judge merhige will make the appointment . chicago law firm recruits american express co. vice president : coffield ungaretti harris & slavin brought in howard a. menell as a partner in its washington , d.c. , office , which opened oct. 1 . for the past six years , mr. menell , 43 years old , served as vice president for government affairs at american express . he previously was staff director and counsel for the senate committee on banking , housing and urban affairs . the other lawyer in the office is partner robert a. macari , the firm 's legislative director . the philadelphia law firm of ballard , spahr , andrews & ingersoll said 0 three partners have joined its business and finance department . john ake , 48 , a former vice-president in charge of legal compliance at american capital management & research inc. , in houston , will join ballard spahr 's corporate-securities practice . kent walker , 45 , a former partner at the philadelphia law firm of mesirov , gelman , jaffe , cramer & jamieson , will specialize in antitrust , real estate and mergers and acquisitions . richard l. sherman , 42 , will advise midsized businesses . mr. sherman is former deputy general counsel for smithkline beckman corp. , in philadelphia , now smithkline beecham plc , in london .