the following issues were recently filed with the securities and exchange commission : american exploration co. , offering of five million common shares , via smith barney , harris upham & co. and shearson lehman hutton inc . chemical waste management inc. , proposed global offering of 8,500,000 shares of common stock , of which seven million of the shares will be offered in the u.s. and 1,500,000 shares will be offered overseas , via merrill lynch capital markets -lrb- domestic -rrb- and kidder , peabody & co . -lrb- international -rrb- . interlake corp. , proposed offering of $ 200 million of senior subordinated debentures , via goldman , sachs & co . intermedia capital corp. , robin cable systems l.p. and brenmor cable partners , offering of senior subordinated discount reset debentures , via drexel burnham lambert inc . john nuveen & co. , initial offerings of the nuveen california performance plus municipal fund inc. and the nuveen new york performance plus municipal fund inc. , via alex . brown & sons inc . knowledgeware inc. , initial offering of three million shares of its common stock , of which 1,657,736 shares will be sold by the company and 1,342,264 will be sold by holders , via montgomery securities and donaldson , lufkin & jenrette securities corp . mgm grand inc. , proposed offering of six million shares of common stock , via merrill lynch . microlog corp. , formerly called old dominion systems inc. , offering of 1.2 million common shares , of which one million will be sold by the company , and the balance by holders , via hambrecht & quist and johnston , lemon & co . scott paper co. , shelf offering of up to $ 360 million of debt securities , via goldman sachs , salomon brothers inc. and smith barney , harris upham . sullivan graphics inc. , offering of $ 110 million of senior subordinated notes , via merrill lynch . sun sportswear inc. , initial offering of 1.7 million common shares , of which one million shares will be sold by the company , and the balance by a holder , via salomon brothers inc. and piper , jaffray & hopwood inc . yes clothing co. , proposed initial offering of 776,470 common shares , of which 600,000 shares will be offered by the company and 176,470 by holders , via seidler amdec securities inc .