this year is the 75th anniversary of the federal reserve system , and some members of congress think 0 it 's time 0 to take a fresh look at the nation 's central bank . after 75 years there may be a few things that are worth reexamining . the regional federal reserve bank setup , for instance , may be out of date . in earlier years it may have seemed reasonable to give richmond , va. , a bank and allow los angeles only a branch of the san francisco bank , but times have changed . maybe the whole regional system is an anachronism ; the fed , after all , is a national central bank . some of the would-be reformers , however , want to restore an arrangement 0 we once had -- or , at least , part of it . in the beginning , the treasury secretary and the comptroller of the currency were both ex officio members of the federal reserve board . but in 1935 , when congress was trying to find someone or something 0 to blame for the great depression , it decided to drop both the secretary and the comptroller from the board . carter glass , a former treasury secretary who was then back in congress , probably influenced the decision . he said that when he was on the board he felt that he had a great deal of power and , somehow , he did n't think 0 that was a good thing . times have changed . rep. byron dorgan -lrb- d. , n.d . -rrb- has introduced a bill in congress , co-sponsored by rep. lee hamilton -lrb- d. , ind. -rrb- , that would put the treasury secretary back on the board . there is doubt that the change would accomplish much but at least congress , as in 1935 , would be doing something . so far no one has suggested putting the comptroller back on the board . nicholas brady , the incumbent treasury secretary , is of course aware of the proposal , and he does n't like it much . mr. dorgen has changed tactics , dropping the seat-for-the-secretary idea . that may have pleased the secretary , but h. erich heinemann , chief economist of the investment firm of ladenburg , thalmann & co. , suggests that mr. brady may figure 0 he already has all the power 0 he needs . like most treasury secretaries , mr. brady takes a keen interest in monetary matters , of course . he was , in fact , taking an especially keen interest in board matters even before he went to the treasury . after the october 1987 market crash , mr. brady as a private citizen headed a presidential commission that tried to decide what went wrong and what should be done about it . one of the commission 's recommendations was that a single agency , probably the federal reserve , should coordinate regulation of all financial markets . this recommendation might have encouraged a turf-hungry bureaucrat to try to expand his power , but so far federal reserve chairman alan greenspan has n't made a pitch for the job . the fed has plenty of responsibilities in times of market turmoil and in 1987 and again in 1989 it appears to have handled them well . mr. brady has said 0 he thought 0 government agencies in the latest market drop were better prepared to coordinate their actions , but he has left no doubt that he still likes the ideas 0 the commission advanced nearly two years ago . in recent weeks , moreover , mr. brady has joined other administration officials in trying to urge the fed toward lower interest rates . the urging admittedly has been gentle . in an interview with the washington post in early october , the secretary said 0 the fed may be slightly more interested in curbing inflation than the administration is , while the administration may put slightly more emphasis on spurring economic growth . at least some economists , of course , would argue that inflation deserves a lot of emphasis . earlier this month the st. louis fed held a conference to assess the system 's first 75 years . allan meltzer , a carnegie-mellon university economist , noted that the fed 's record included the longest , most sustained , peacetime inflation in our history , dating from either 1966 or 1967 to 1989 . the inflation-growth argument is an old one , but mr. brady , on the board or off , is surely trying to influence fed policy . equally importantly , the treasury secretary has spearheaded the administration effort to bring the u.s. dollar down by shopping avidly for west german marks and japanese yen . the treasury can do something on its own , but to have any hope of success it needs help from the fed . the central bank has been helping , but apparently not especially eagerly . the fed has been intervening in foreign currency markets , all right , but through august , at least , it appeared to be `` sterilizing '' the intervention . in other words , it was offsetting purchases of marks and yen by buying dollars in the domestic money market . now , sterilized intervention may have some effect . when traders see 0 the fed is in the exchange market it may make them tread a little carefully , for fear of what the central bank may do . but it 's generally accepted that sterilized intervention has little or no lasting impact on currency values . after august the fed may have stopped sterilizing , but it 's hard to see much impact on the dollar . the dollar is still highly volatile . the fed has let interest rates slip slightly , but whether the main reason was dollar intervention , the gloomy reports on manufacturing employment , or the friday 13 market drop , only mr. greenspan and his associates know . earlier this year , martin feldstein , president of the national bureau of economic research , argued forcefully that a government that wants steady , stable exchange rates might try some steady stable economic policies . trying to manage exchange rates to some desired level , he said 0 , `` would mean diverting monetary and fiscal policies from their customary roles and thereby risking excessive inflation and unemployment and inadequate capital formation . '' the more we think about it , the more we suspect 0 mr. brady does indeed have enough power where he already is .