mobil corp. is in the midst of cutting back its exploration and production group , which finds and develops oil and gas reserves in the u.s. , by as much as 15 % as part of a new restructuring of that sector of its business . management advised employees friday that it was going to reduce employment in production operations of the group by 8 % , or 400 people . the exploration side of the unit has recently undergone a similar overhaul , during which it also lost as many as 400 employees , a company spokesman said 0 in response to questions . mobil exploration & producing u.s. inc. , the group involved , currently has a work force of somewhat less than 5,000 . a few years ago , mobil restructured the entire company during an industrywide shakeout . but since then u.s. oil production has declined and mobil wants to focus its oil-finding efforts overseas . mobil alluded to the work-force cuts last week when it took a $ 40 million charge as part of its third-quarter earnings and attributed it to a restructuring . mobil officials said that it is unlikely 0 any additional charges related to this move will be taken in future quarters . on wednesday , mobil will begin offering separation packages and voluntary retirement in its u.s. production operation . mobil officials said 0 they have been studying ways of streamlining these operations since early this year . during the coming months , layers of management will be peeled away and regional offices will become more autonomous . for greater efficiency , employees at those locations will be reorganized into teams responsible for managing the properties under their jurisdiction , mobil said 0 . `` the main feature of the new organization is that each local manager will have both the authority and accountability for profitable and technically sound operations , '' said charles e. spruell , president of the mobil unit . field offices at new orleans ; houston ; denver ; midland , tex. ; bakersfield , calif. ; oklahoma city ; and liberal , kan. , will be maintained . but the staffs at some of those locations will be slashed while at others the work force will be increased . for instance , employment in denver will be reduced to 105 from 430 . but on the west coast , where profitable oil production is more likely than in the midcontinent region , the bakersfield , calif. , office staff of 130 will grow by 175 to 305 . the reorganization will `` focus on the value and potential of assets , '' mr. spruell said 0 .