quotron systems inc. plans to cut about 400 , or 16 % , of its 2,500 employees over the next several months . `` this action will continue to keep operating expenses in line '' with revenue , said j. david hann , president and chief executive officer of los angeles-based quotron . the move by the financial information and services subsidiary of citicorp is a `` response to changing conditions in the retail securities industry , which has been contracting '' since october 1987 's stock market crash , the executive added 0 . quotron , which citicorp purchased in 1986 , provides price quotations for securities , particularly stocks . quotron also provides trading and other systems , services for brokerage firms , and communications-network services . independent providers of financial information , including quotron , have been under some pressure as the major securities houses try to regain their hold on the production of market data and on the related revenue . shearson , goldman , sachs & co. , morgan stanley & co. and salomon inc. are discussing formation of a group 0 to sell securities-price data . the job cuts , 0 to be made in a number of areas at various job levels , are `` a streamlining of operations , '' a spokeswoman said 0 . the company has no immediate plans to close any operations , she said 0 , but quotron may subcontract some work that it has been doing in-house , including refurbishment and production of quotron 1000 equipment used in delivering financial data . the spokeswoman said 0 the move is n't directly a response to quotron 's loss of its two biggest customers , merrill lynch & co. and american express co. 's shearson lehman hutton inc. , to automated data processing inc. earlier this year . the spokeswoman noted that last week , kidder , peabody & co. , the securities subsidiary of general electric co. , chose a quotron subsidiary 0 to provide order-processing services . and oct. 24 , quotron said 0 it will market the automated trading system of broker-dealer chapdelaine government securities inc . quotron is n't profitable on citicorp 's books because of the interest charges 0 the new york bank holding company incurred in buying the financial-data concern for $ 680 million , says 0 ronald i. mandle , analyst for sanford c. bernstein & co . but citicorp `` does view quotron -rrb- as being crucial to the financial-services business in the 1990s , '' the analyst added 0 . this past summer , quotron sold its customer-service unit , employing 600 , to phoenix technologies inc. , a closely held computer-service firm in valley forge , pa . terms were n't disclosed .