when westinghouse electric corp. shuttered its massive steam turbine plant in lester , pa. , three years ago , it seemed like the company had pulled the plug on its century-old power generation business . but now westinghouse is enjoying a resurgence in demand for both steam and combustion turbines and may even join the growing legion of independent electric producers . and with its new venture with japan 's mitsubishi heavy industries ltd. , announced last week , it is poised to penetrate growing markets overseas . for the first time since the mid-1970s , westinghouse this year has seen a significant increase in orders for power plants . most are from independent producers instead of regulated utilities , and westinghouse believes 0 it will ride a wave of demand stretching over the next six years . analysts agree , predicting that the revived market could significantly boost westinghouse 's bottom line in coming years . `` westinghouse 's earnings could be materially enhanced in the mid-1990s or sooner , '' says russell l. leavitt , of salomon brothers inc . the company expects a need for 140,000 megawatts of new generation in the u.s. over the next decade . already this year , it has received orders for four 150-megawatt advanced combustion turbines from florida power & light co. and for two 300-megawatt plants from intercontinental energy corp. , among others . westinghouse 's own role as a supplier also is changing . in the past , the company usually took token equity positions in power plants 0 it supplied as a `` kicker '' to close deals . but last june 's annnouncement that westinghouse would put up all of the $ 70 million 0 to build a new 55-megawatt plant could herald a new age . westinghouse 's plant will provide electrical power to the southern california edison co. and backup power and steam to the u.s. borax & chemical co . `` we have n't decided on a strategy yet , but we could become an independent producer depending on whether we 're the developer or just the supplier , '' says theodore stern , executive vice president of the company 's energy and utility systems group . at the same time , westinghouse hopes 0 its venture with mitsubishi will help fend off growing competition , particularly in the u.s. , from such european competitors as asea brown boveri ag , siemens ag , and british general electric co . under the agreement , westinghouse will be able to purchase smaller combustion turbines from its japanese partner , and package and sell them with its own generators and other equipment . westinghouse also jointly will bid on projects with misubishi , giving it an edge in developing asian markets . in addition , the two companies will develop new steam turbine technology , such as the plants ordered by florida power , and even utilize each other 's plants at times to take advantage of currency fluctuations . `` even though we 'll still compete against mitsubishi , we can also work jointly on some projects , and we 'll gain a lot of sourcing flexibility , '' mr. stern contends . the westinghouse-mitsubishi venture was designed as a non-equity transaction , circumventing any possible antitrust concerns . westinghouse carefully crafted the agreement because the justice department earlier this year successfully challenged a proposed steam turbine joint venture with asea brown boveri . it is expected that the current surge in demand for new power will be filled primarily by independent producers which , unlike utilities , are n't regulated and therefore do n't need government approval to construct new plants . westinghouse expects about half of its new orders for turbines to come from independent producers for at least the next six years . despite shutdowns of the company 's lester and east pittsburgh plants , the company believes 0 it has sufficient capacity 0 to meet near-term demand with its much smaller and more efficient manufacturing facilities in north carolina . still , westinghouse acknowledges that demand from independent producers could evaporate if prices for fuel such as natural gas or oil rise sharply or if utilities , which have been pressured by regulators to keep down rates , are suddenly freed to add significant generating capacity . even if that scenario occurs , westinghouse figures 0 it is prepared . the company already is gearing up for a renaissance of nuclear power even though it has n't received an order for a domestic nuclear plant in a decade . john c. marous , chairman and chief executive officer , says 0 he expects a commercial order by 1995 for the company 's ap600 nuclear power plant , which is under development . `` once we see an order , we expect 0 it 'll be on line by 2000 .