france 's national tobacco company , known for making brown-tobacco cigarettes such as gauloises and gitanes , is branching out . concerned by dipping demand for its traditional products , it is moving not only into blonde cigarettes , but also into electronic car-parking payment cards 0 to be sold in neighborhood tobacco stores . brown tobacco in france is a more pungent , stronger grade than the lighter grade , or blonde tobacco , used in so-called american-style cigarettes . `` we are n't philip morris cos. , '' says bertrand de galle , chairman of government-owned societe nationale d'exploitation industrielle des tabacs & allumettes s.a. , known as seita . he says that because seita 's profits are limited by government-controlled cigarette prices , he does n't have the cash 0 to diversify as heavily into food and drink as the u.s. concern has done . -lrb- last year , for example , seita 's net profit soared 150 % to 461.6 million french francs -lrb- $ 73.5 million -rrb- on sales of ffr 27.68 billion - a 1.7 % profit margin . -rrb- instead , he said in an interview , 0 he is looking for ways 0 to exploit france 's network of 39,000 tobacco agents , most of them cafes . while seita does n't own the french tabacs , its close alliance with them offers distribution possibilities . one proposal is to introduce a new payment system for parking in paris . instead of paying for parking by putting money in the existing machines , which deliver little paper receipts , drivers would be able to buy electronic cards in local tobacco shops . once activated , the card would sit in the car 's window , showing traffic wardens how much time the motorist could remain . when the motorist returned to his car he could turn the card off and , if it showed time remaining , save it for later . seita is a partner in the project , which was developed by matra sa using japanese technology . seita and matra currently are negotiating with city officials for the right to begin service . and seita is considering further diversification . it wanted to buy rjr nabisco inc. 's french cracker subsidiary , belin , in hopes of selling its products in tobacco stores , but lost the bidding to food group bsn sa . it currently is considering bidding for swedish match co . and it retains an interest in acquiring candies and other articles that might be sold in tobacco shops . it also is trying to shore up its tobacco business . brown-tobacco cigarettes such as gauloises now make up just 40 % of the french tobacco market , half the level of about two decades ago . while seita retains a manufacturing monopoly in france , it is being hurt by rising imports and from waning cigarette demand . so seita has introduced blonde cigarettes under the gauloises label , and intends to relaunch the unsuccessful gitanes blondes in new packaging , similar to the slide-packs used by brown-tobacco gitanes . the aim , says mr. de galle , is to win market share from imported cigarettes , and to persuade smokers who are switching to blonde cigarettes to keep buying french .