in 1987 , the presidents commission of the ncaa , which oversees most u.s. intercollegiate sports , contracted with the washington-based american institutes for research to do a survey on the college experiences of what the body chooses to call student-athletes . a brief `` executive summary '' was issued last april , and attracted some , but not much , attention . more-detailed reports followed , and attracted even less notice . i suspect 0 i may be one of the few people 0 to have read them all . the sixth and last report now is out , and it puts the effort in perspective . titled `` comments from students , '' it focuses on the real shame of college sports : what happens to young athletes once they enter academe . it 's little less than a cry for help from those who make the costly show possible . the previous five reports were mainly statistical , but clear enough in outline . they showed that participants in division i football and men 's basketball , the big-time `` revenue sports , '' entered school with poorer high-school grades and test scores than `` minor-sport '' jocks and students who participated in other extracurricular activities , and they got lower grades once they got there , at least partly because of the athletic demands placed on them . the football and basketball players spent more time on their sports in season than they did on class attendance and homework combined -lrb- 30 hours a week versus 25.3 -rrb- . almost half -lrb- 49.8 % -rrb- reported suffering `` mental abuse '' from coaches , and almost one-quarter -lrb- 24.8 % -rrb- said 0 they had been pressured to ignore injuries . but even those numbers do n't describe the situation as well as the athletes do in their own words . the composite portrait that emerges is n't of a pampered jock marking time until he can land a seven-figure pro contract -- he 's part of a tiny minority . rather , it 's of a kid -lrb- we 're talking about 17 to 22 year olds here -rrb- having a tough time making the best of what will probably be his one shot at college . the pertinent question , coming at the end of a lengthy , confidential questionnaire , was this : `` are there things about your college life 0 you would like to tell us that we did n't ask about ? '' of the almost 3,000 athletes surveyed , 1,240 took the time 0 to respond . here are a few of their answers : -- `` they say that i am a student-athlete , but really i 'm an athlete-student . they lied to me on the recruiting trip . football is the no. 1 thing here '' . -- junior football player . -- `` being a student-athlete at college is a lot different from high school . first , the sport 0 you play is no longer a game -- it becomes a job . your coaches demand a lot more out of you even though some of them are not willing to take the time 0 to watch you progress . you become expendable . your interest is not taken to heart because people only care about your performance '' . -- freshman basketball player . -- `` the coaches should have a more personal and sympathetic attitude toward the athletes -- not treat us like pieces of meat . they always say 0 to get a degree first , but they do n't allow us time or to skip practice to study for a test . they just want to get their job done at any cost to the athlete '' . -- freshman football player . -- `` the pressure put on us to win at all times has resulted in physical violence , such as punching and slapping by coaches . some days the coaches make you feel as though you are part of a large herd of animals . in other words , they treat you like a piece of meat '' . -- sophomore football player . -- `` playing intercollegiate sports does n't give you a lot of time 0 to spend with others . we are almost left out of -lcb- campus -rcb- social activities . this mostly happens because we go from football in the fall to lifting in the winter to football again in the spring '' . -- freshman football player . -- `` you talk about free time -- .what free time ? time 0 to relax and enjoy ourselves is always taken up by something 0 to do with football -lrb- meetings , lifting weights , conditioning or films -rrb- . there is no recovery period -- it 's go , go , go . abuse to our bodies is overwhelming . with our schedule , it 's hard to sleep well knowing what is going to happen the next day '' . -- junior football player . -- `` physical exhaustion and depression are common in my life and in some of my teammates ' lives '' . -- football player , class unspecified . -- `` more often than not , college athletes go through college never really experiencing collegiate life to the fullest . one has to establish one 's own identity away from athletics and make athletics only a part , not a whole , of the student-athlete 's life '' . -- sophomore basketball player . -- `` somehow , and i do n't know how , the game needs to be played for fun again , and not for the big bowl revenues or lucrative tv contracts '' . -- graduate-student football player . there have been rumblings that , at long last , changes may be in the works . the knight foundation , of akron , ohio , has established a national commission 0 to look into college-sports reform , and the ncaa presidents commission earlier this month recommended cutting spring football practice in half , moving the start of basketball practice back by a month and reducing maximum schedules in that sport to 25 games from 28 . the key word in that paragraph , though , is `` may . '' ncaa executive director richard schultz , in accepting a place on the knight commission , urged that the panel take a `` balanced '' view , which looks for all the world like a plea 0 not to rock the boat too much , and the presidents ' recommendations could face considerable opposition at the ncaa 's full convention in january , which will vote on them . i read that one unnamed athletics director predicted that the basketball-cutback proposal could fail because of `` real world '' -lrb- i.e. , economic -rrb- considerations . but the `` real world '' also includes the unpleasant truth that colleges are cheating the athletes 0 they have wooed and won . if they wo n't change their ways voluntarily , maybe somebody bigger -- congress -- should make them .