billions of investors ' dollars are pouring out of the nation 's junk-bond mutual funds , undermining a pillar of support in the already reeling junk market . last week alone , an eye-popping $ 1.6 billion flowed out of the junk funds , or nearly 5 % of their total assets , according to estimates by dalbar financial services inc. , a boston research firm . in the past two months the nation 's 88 junk funds have lost a total of about $ 6 billion -- more than 15 % of assets -- through sales or transfers of junk-fund shares , dalbar says 0 . it made the estimates based on data collected from more than a dozen big junk funds . interviews with three major fund groups -- fidelity investments , vanguard group inc. and t. rowe price associates inc. -- confirm the trend . their junk funds combined have had net outflows totaling nearly $ 500 million , or about 13 % of their junk fund assets , in the past two months . some fund managers say 0 negative publicity has exacerbated investors ' concern about recent declines in junk-bond prices . `` people have been seeing headline after headline after headline and saying : ` i ca n't take it anymore -- i 'm getting out , ' '' says kurt brouwer of brouwer & janachowski , a san francisco investment adviser . the withdrawals could spell trouble for the $ 200 billion junk market . if the heavy outflows continue , fund managers will face increasing pressure to sell off some of their junk to pay departing investors in the weeks ahead . such selling could erode prices of high-yield junk bonds , already weakened by a rash of corporate credit problems . mutual fund groups have n't lost control of much of the outgoing money , says 0 louis harvey , dalbar 's president . mutual fund officials say that investors have transferred most of it into their money market accounts , and to a lesser extent , government-bond funds . so the impact on the $ 950 billion mutual fund industry as a whole probably will be slight . but tremors are likely in the junk-bond market , which has helped to finance the takeover boom of recent years . mutual funds are the among the largest holders of junk , accounting for more than a quarter of the entire high-yield , high-risk market . the 88 mutual funds investing solely in junk bonds hold assets of about $ 32 billion . other funds hold a smattering of junk bonds , too . the $ 1.5 billion fidelity high income fund has had a net outflow of about $ 150 million in the past two months . about $ 60 million streamed out last week alone , double the level of the week following last month 's campeau corp. credit squeeze . about 98 % of the outflow was transferred to other fidelity funds , says 0 neal litvack , a fidelity vice president , marketing , with most going into money market funds . `` you get a news item , it hits , you have strong redemptions that day and for two days following -- then go back to normal , '' says mr. litvack . the fund , with a cash cushion of more than 10 % , has `` met all the redemptions without having to sell one thing , '' mr. litvack says . he adds : `` our fund has had -lcb- positive -rcb- net sales every month for the last three years -- until this month . '' vanguard 's $ 1 billion high yield bond portfolio has seen $ 161 million flow out since early september ; $ 14 million of that seeped out friday oct. 13 alone . still , two-thirds of the outflow has been steered into other vanguard portfolios , says 0 brian mattes , a vice president . the fund now holds a cash position of about 15 % . at the $ 932 million t. rowe price high yield fund , investors yanked out about $ 182 million in the past two months . those withdrawals , most of which were transferred to other t. rowe price funds , followed little change in the fund 's sales picture this year through august . `` the last two months have been the whole ball game , '' says steven norwitz , a vice president . junk-fund holders have barely broken even this year , as fat interest payments barely managed to offset declining prices . through oct. 19 , high-yield funds had an average 0.85 % total return -lrb- the price change plus dividends on fund shares -rrb- , according to lipper analytical services inc . that 's even less than the 4.35 % total return of the merrill lynch high-yield index . fidelity 's junk fund has fallen 2.08 % this year through oct. 19 , lipper says 0 ; the vanguard fund rose 1.84 % ; and the t. rowe price fund edged up 0.66 % . people who remain in junk funds now could get hit again , some analysts and fund specialists say 0 . many funds in recent weeks and months have been selling their highest-quality junk issues , such as rjr nabisco , to raise cash to meet expected redemptions . funds might be forced to accept lower prices if they expand their selling to the securities of less-creditworthy borrowers . and then , asset values of the funds could plunge more than they have so far . says michael hirsch , chief investment officer of republic national bank and manager of the fundtrust group in new york : `` it 's a time bomb just waiting to go off .