while worry grows about big japanese investments in the u.s. , japan 's big trading companies are rapidly increasing their stake in america 's smaller business . for japan , the controversial trend improves access to american markets and technology . but for small american companies , it also provides a growing source of capital and even marketing help . take the deal with candela laser corp. , a wayland , mass. , manufacturer of high-tech medical devices , which three years ago set its sights on japan as an export market . partly to help clear the myriad obstacles facing any overseas company trying to penetrate japan , tiny candela turned to mitsui & co. , one of japan 's largest trading companies , for investment . in a joint-venture deal , mitsui guided candela through tokyo 's bureaucratic maze . it eventually secured ministry of health import approval for two candela laser products -- one that breaks up kidney stones and another that treats skin lesions . at last count , candela had sold $ 4 million of its medical devices in japan . the deal also gave mitsui access to a high-tech medical product . `` they view this as a growth area so they went about it with a systematic approach , '' says richard olsen , a candela vice president . indeed , for many japanese trading companies , the favorite u.s. small business is one whose research and development can be milked for future japanese use . the japanese companies bankroll many small u.s. companies with promising products or ideas , frequently putting their money behind projects that commercial banks wo n't touch . japanese companies have financed small and medium-sized u.s. firms for years , but in recent months , the pace has taken off . in the first half of 1989 alone , japanese corporations invested $ 214 million in minority positions in u.s. companies , a 61 % rise from the figure for all of 1987 , reports 0 venture economics inc . the needham , mass. , concern tracks investments in new businesses . in addition , of course , some of the japanese investments involved outright purchase of small u.s. firms . heightened japanese interest in american small business parallels an acceleration of investments giving japanese companies control of large , highly visible u.s. corporations , such as columbia pictures entertainment inc . only this week , it was announced that mitsubishi estate co. had acquired a 51 % stake in rockefeller group , which owns new york 's prestigious rockefeller center . while the small deals are far less conspicuous , they add to japanese penetration of the u.s. market . as the deals also improve japanese access to american technology and market knowledge , they feed american anxieties in this area , too . even a low-tech product like plate glass can catch a trading company 's fancy if there 's a strategic fit . free state glass industries of warrenton , va. , a small fabricator of architectural glass , was foundering under its original management . last year , mitsubishi international corp. , the new york-based arm of mitsubishi corp. , bought controlling interest in the glass company in a joint venture with ronald bodner , a glass industry executive and mitsubishi consultant . the deal is chiefly designed to give mitsubishi a window on the u.s. glass industry , says ichiro wakui , an executive in mitsubishi 's general merchandise department in new york . `` it 's not just a simple investment in a small company , '' mr. wakui says . `` we want to see the glass market from the inside , not the outside . '' mitsubishi 's investment in free state is `` very small ... less than $ 4 million , '' mr. wakui says 0 . mr. bodner declines to comment on the arrangement . trading companies such as mitsubishi , mitsui , c. itoh & co. and nissho-iwai corp. , which make many of the japanese investments in small u.s. concerns , have no u.s. counterpart . these vertically integrated combines , some of which got their start in japan 's feudal period , deal globally in commodities , construction and manufacturing . they operate ships and banks . `` all the `` sogo-shosha '' are looking for new business , '' says arthur klauser , adviser to the president of mitsui , u.s.a. , using the japanese term for the largest of the global trading houses . adds takeshi kondo , senior vice president of c. itoh america inc. : `` we have a great interest in making investments , particularly in new ventures . '' a host of electronics firms in california 's silicon valley were financed with trading-company venture capital . profit , at least in the short term , is usually a secondary goal . `` strategic objectives , not financial return , drive many of the deals , '' says a venture economics spokesman . in investing on the basis of future transactions , a role often performed by merchant banks , trading companies can cut through the logjam that small-company owners often face with their local commercial banks . `` it 's the classic problem of the small businessman , '' says malcolm davies , managing director of trading alliance corp. of new york . `` people are queuing at the door to take his product but he does n't have the working capital 0 to make the thing and commercial banks are very unsympathetic . they want assets , they want a balance sheet , which has no relation to the business 0 a company can generate . '' adds mitsui 's mr. klauser : `` unlike corporations in this country , trading companies are n't so much interested in a high return on investment as they are on increasing trade flows . to the extent 0 they can do this , they 're quite content to get a return on investment of 1 % to 2 % . '' mr. klauser says 0 mitsui has 75 u.s. subsidiaries in which it holds 35 % interest or more and the trading company hopes to double the number of its u.s. affiliates in 1990 . sales by these subsidiaries in the fiscal year ending last march were more than $ 17 billion . a 1 % to 2 % return on $ 17 billion `` ai n't hay , '' mr. klauser says 0 .