georgia-pacific corp. 's unsolicited $ 3.19 billion bid for great northern nekoosa corp. was hailed by wall street despite a cool reception by the target company . william r. laidig , nekoosa 's chairman , chief executive officer and president , characterized the $ 58-a-share bid as `` uninvited '' and said 0 nekoosa 's board would consider the offer `` in due course . '' t. marshall hahn jr. , georgia-pacific 's chairman and chief executive , said in an interview that all terms of the offer are negotiable . he added that he had spoken with mr. laidig , whom he referred to as a friend , by telephone monday evening . `` i 'm hopeful that we 'll have further discussions , '' mr. hahn said . on wall street , takeover stock traders bid nekoosa 's stock well above the georgia-pacific bid , assuming that nekoosa 's will either be sold to a rival bidder or to georgia-pacific at a higher price -- as much as $ 75 a share , according to some estimates . yesterday , nekoosa common closed in composite new york stock exchange trading at $ 62.875 , up $ 20.125 , on volume of almost 6.3 million shares . georgia-pacific closed down $ 2.50 , at $ 50.875 in big board trading . takeover stock traders noted that with the junk-bond market in disarray , georgia-pacific 's bid is an indication of where the takeover game is headed : namely , industrial companies can continue bidding for one another , but financial buyers such as leveraged buy-out firms will be at a disadvantage in obtaining financing . `` the way 0 the world is shaping up , the strategic buyer is going to be the rule and the financial buyer is going to be the exception , '' said one trader . for the paper industry specifically , most analysts said 0 the deal will spur a wave of paper-company takeovers , possibly involving such companies as union camp corp. , federal paperboard co. and mead corp . the analysts argued that georgia-pacific 's offer , the first hostile bid ever among major players in the paper industry , ends the unwritten taboo on hostile bids , and will push managements to look closely at the industry 's several attractive takeover candidates . `` consolidation has been long overdue . it was just the culture of the industry that kept it from happening . the georgia-pacific offer has definitely changed the landscape , '' said gary palmero of oppenheimer & co . added mark rogers of prudential-bache securities inc. : `` it 's much easier to be second . '' a georgia-pacific acquisition of nekoosa would create the largest u.s. forest-products company . based on 1988 sales , georgia-pacific ranked third at $ 9.51 billion , behind weyerhaeuser co. at $ 10 billion and international paper co. at $ 9.53 billion . nekoosa ranked 11th with sales of $ 3.59 billion . the combined company would have had 1988 sales of $ 13.1 billion . but such a combination also presents great risks . at a time when most analysts and industry consultants say 0 pulp and paper prices are heading for a dive , adding capacity and debt could squeeze georgia-pacific if the industry declines more than the company expects . moreover , any unexpected strengthening of the dollar would hurt georgia-pacific because two of nekoosa 's major product lines -- containerboard , which is used to make shipping boxes , and market pulp -- are exported in large quantities . `` nobody knows how deep the cycle is going to be , '' said rod young , vice president of resource information systems inc. , a bedford , mass. , economic-forecasting firm . `` depending on how far down you go , it may be difficult to pay off that debt . '' one person familiar with georgia-pacific said 0 the acquisition would more than double the company 's debt of almost $ 3 billion . it also could be a drag on georgia-pacific earnings because the roughly $ 1.5 billion in goodwill -- the amount by which the bid exceeds nekoosa 's book value of $ 1.5 billion -- will have to be subtracted from earnings over a period of decades . georgia-pacific 's mr. hahn said that a combined operation would allow savings in many ways . the two companies each produce market pulp , containerboard and white paper . that means 0 goods could be manufactured closer to customers , saving shipping costs , he said 0 . moreover , production runs would be longer , cutting inefficiencies from adjusting machinery between production cycles . and georgia-pacific could save money in selling pulp , because the company uses its own sales organization while nekoosa employs higher-cost agents . mr. hahn said 0 georgia-pacific has accounted in its strategy for a `` significant downturn '' in the pulp and paper industry , an event that he said 0 would temporarily dilute earnings . but he said that even under those conditions , the company still would realize a savings of tens of millions of dollars in the first year following a merger . `` the fit is so good , we see this as a time of opportunity , '' he said . georgia-pacific , which has suspended its stock-repurchase program , would finance the acquisition with all bank debt , provided by banks led by bankamerica corp . georgia-pacific owns 349,900 nekoosa shares and would need federal antitrust clearance to buy more than $ 15 million worth . u.s. clearance also is needed for the proposed acquisition . for nekoosa , defense options may be undercut somewhat by the precarious state of the junk-bond market , which limits how much value the target could reach in a debt-financed recapitalization . the company 's chairman , mr. laidig , and a group of advisers met at the offices of wachtel lipton rosen & katz , a law firm specializing in takeover defense . nekoosa also is being advised by goldman , sachs & co . georgia-pacific 's advisers are wasserstein , perella & co. , which stands to receive a $ 15 million fee if the takeover succeeds , and the law firm of shearman & sterling . people familiar with nekoosa said 0 its board is n't likely to meet before the week after next to respond to the bid . the board has 10 business days 0 to respond . in addition to the usual array of defenses , including a so-called poison pill and a staggered board , nekoosa has another takeover defense : a maine state law barring hostile bidders from merging acquired businesses for five years . nekoosa is incorporated in maine . georgia-pacific has filed a lawsuit in federal court in maine challenging the poison pill and the maine merger law . nekoosa 's poison pill allows shareholders to vote to rescind it , but georgia-pacific is n't likely to pursue such a course immediately because that would take 90 to 120 days , and would n't affect the provisions of the maine law . among companies mentioned by analysts as possible counterbidders for nekoosa are international paper , weyerhaeuser , canadian pacific ltd. and macmillan bloedel ltd . `` i 'm sure 0 everybody else is putting pencil to paper , '' said kathryn mcauley , an analyst with first manhattan co . international paper and weyerhaeuser declined to comment . canadian pacific could n't be reached for comment , and macmillan bloedel said 0 it has n't any plans to make a bid for nekoosa . investors were quick to spot other potential takeover candidates , all of which have strong cash flows and low-cost operations . among paper company stocks that rallied on the big board because of the offer were union camp , up $ 2.75 to $ 37.75 , federal paperboard , up $ 1.75 to $ 27.875 , mead , up $ 2.375 to $ 38.75 , and temple inland inc. , up $ 3.75 to $ 62.25 . in over-the-counter national trading , bowater inc. jumped $ 1.50 to $ 27.50 . some analysts argued that there wo n't be a flurry of takeovers because the industry 's continuing capacity-expansion program is eating up available cash . moreover , some analysts said 0 they expect a foreign paper company with deeper pockets than georgia-pacific to end up acquiring nekoosa , signaling to the rest of the industry that hostile bids are unproductive . `` this is a one-time event , '' said lawrence ross of painewebber inc. , referring to the georgia-pacific bid . but many analysts believe that , given the attractiveness of paper companies ' cash flows , as well as the frantic consolidation of the paper industry in europe , there will be at least a few more big hostile bids for u.s. companies within the next several months . the buyers , these analysts added 0 , could be either foreign or other u.s. concerns . `` the georgia-pacific bid may open the door to a new era of consolidation '' in the paper industry , said mark devario of shearson lehman hutton inc . `` i do n't think 0 anyone is now immune from takeover , '' said robert schneider of duff & phelps inc. , chicago . he added : `` every paper company management has to be saying to itself , ` before someone comes after me , i 'm going to go after somebody . ' '' prudential-bache 's mr. rodgers said 0 he does n't see the industry 's capacity-expansion program hindering takeover activity . several projects , he said 0 , are still on the drawing board . moreover , `` it 's a lot cheaper and quicker to buy a plant than to build one . '' indeed , a number of analysts said that japanese paper companies are hungry to acquire additional manufacturing capacity anywhere in the world . some predicted that nekoosa will end up being owned by a japanese company . meanwhile , shearson lehman 's mr. devario said that , to stay competitive , the u.s. paper industry needs to catch up with the european industry . since the most-recent wave of friendly takeovers was completed in the u.s. in 1986 , there have been more than 100 mergers and acquisitions within the european paper industry , he said 0 .