battle-tested japanese industrial managers here always buck up nervous newcomers with the tale of the first of their countrymen 0 to visit mexico , a boatload of samurai warriors blown ashore 375 years ago . `` from the beginning , it took a man with extraordinary qualities to succeed in mexico , '' says kimihide takimura , president of mitsui group 's kensetsu engineering inc. unit . here in this new center for japanese assembly plants just across the border from san diego , turnover is dizzying , infrastructure shoddy , bureaucracy intense . even after-hours drag ; `` karaoke '' bars , where japanese revelers sing over recorded music , are prohibited by mexico 's powerful musicians union . still , 20 japanese companies , including giants such as sanyo industries corp. , matsushita electronics components corp. and sony corp. have set up shop in the state of northern baja california . keeping the japanese happy will be one of the most important tasks facing conservative leader ernesto ruffo when he takes office nov. 1 , as the first opposition governor in mexico 's modern history . mexico , with its desperate need for investment , and japan , with its huge budget surplus , would seem like a perfect match . but the two countries remain separated by a cultural barrier wider than the ocean . conservative japanese investors are put off by what they consider mexico 's restrictive investment regulations and loose work habits . from the mexicans ' viewpoint , vaunted tactics of methodical japanese managers do n't count for much in a land where a saying says `` there are no fixed rules . '' japan ranks as only the fourth largest foreign investor in mexico , with 5 % of the total investments . that is just 1 % of all the money 0 japan has invested abroad . mexican president carlos salinas de gortari would like to change that . the young president so admires japanese discipline that he sends his children to a japanese school in mexico city . he already has finagled a $ 2 billion loan from the japanese government . but mexico urgently needs more help . mr. salinas 's unpopular institutional revolutionary party , or pri , faces congressional elections in 1991 . for the pri to stand a chance , mr. salinas has to press on with an economic program that so far has succeeded in lowering inflation and providing moderate economic growth . but maintaining the key components of his strategy -- a stable exchange rate and high level of imports -- will consume enormous amounts of foreign exchange . mr. salinas needs big investment inflows -- quickly . the problem is that japanese businesses make decisions with a view well beyond the coming months that weigh so heavily on mr. salinas . `` the japanese will come to mexico , but not immediately , '' says kazushige suzuki , director-general of the japanese external trade organization in mexico . if not now , when ? `` when the fruit is ripe , it falls from the tree by itself , '' he says . pressed on the matter , he is more specific . `` there will be big japanese investments probably five to 10 years from now . '' ryukichi imai , japan 's ambassador to mexico , agrees that mexico may be too eager . `` there seems to be a presumption in some sectors of -lrb- mexico 's -rrb- government that there is a lot of japanese money waiting behind the gate , and that by slightly opening the gate , that money will enter mexico . i do n't think 0 that is the case . '' mexican officials maintain 0 the japanese reserve is only a result of unfamiliarity . `` because of distance , it takes a while for them to appreciate the economic stability 0 we 've achieved , '' says one economic policymaker . mexico is sending a number of missions to japan looking for a major breakthrough investment in telecommunications , petrochemicals or tourism . it is hoped that other japanese would then follow the leader . but japanese investors say that their reluctance to invest stems not only from concerns about mexico 's economic outlook , but also reservations about mexico 's recently revamped investment law . unable to get a new law through a congress with a strong leftist bloc , mexico jury-rigged the existing law 's regulations . it created special 20-year trusts to allow foreigners 100 % ownership in some once-closed industries . it also made artful use of semantics , redefining as non-strategic industries some that had been in the national domain . `` those devices do n't give sufficient certainty to our bosses in japan , '' says yasuo nakamura , representative of the industrial bank of japan . mr. nakamura cites the case of a customer who wants to build a giant tourism complex in baja and has been trying for eight years to get around mexican restrictions on foreign ownership of beachfront property . he could develop the beach through a trust , but instead is trying have his grandson become a naturalized mexican so his family gains direct control . some say 0 the best hope for the mexicans is catching the eye of japan by promoting the one industry 0 the japanese clearly like -- the border assembly plants , known as `` maquiladoras , '' which are open to 100 % foreign control . `` we must do more to help the japanese here in baja if we want them to invest elsewhere , '' says mr. ruffo , the governor-elect of the national action party and himself a succesful businessman . plant operators are heartened by mr. ruffo 's pledge to cut corruption associated with the ruling party officials . but mr. ruffo frets that an even bigger problem could be protectionism from the u.s. , where some politicians oppose what they consider japanese efforts to use maquiladoras to crack the u.s. market through the back door .