a nickname for measures 0 to stop the market from plunging too far too fast . several moves were taken following the october 1987 crash to coordinate -- and sometimes deliberately disconnect -- the stock and futures markets in times of heightened volatility . on the big board , a `` side car '' is put into effect when the s&p futures rise or fall 12 points . the side car routes program trades into a special computer file that scans for imbalances of buy and sell orders . on the chicago mercantile exchange , s&p 500 futures are not allowed to fall further than 12 points from the previous day 's close for half an hour . if , when trading resumes , the s&p futures fall 30 points from the previous day 's close , a one-hour trading halt takes effect . also , the reforms allow the big board to halt trading for one hour if the dow jones industrial average falls 250 points , and for two more hours if the dow slides an additional 150 points on the same day . dot system -- the `` designated order turnaround '' system was launched by the new york stock exchange in march 1976 , to offer automatic , high-speed order processing . a faster version , the superdot , was launched in 1984 . used by program traders and others to zip orders into the exchange , superdot handles about 80 % of all orders entered at the exchange . futures contracts -- obligations to buy -lrb- for those who have purchased a contract -rrb- or deliver -lrb- for those who sold one -rrb- a quantity of the underlying commodity or financial instrument at the agreed-upon price by a certain date . most contracts are simply nullified by an opposite trade before they come due . indexing -- many investors , mainly institutions , follow an investment strategy of buying and holding a mix of stocks 0 to match the performance of a broad stock-market barometer such as the s&p 500 . many institutional index funds are active program traders , swapping their stocks for futures when profitable to do so . program trading -- a wide range of computer-assisted portfolio trading strategies involving the simultaneous purchase or sale of 15 or more stocks . quant -- generally , any wall street analyst who employs quantitive research techniques . the newest breed , also called `` rocket scientists '' because of their backgrounds in physics and mathematics , devise the complex hedging and trading strategies that are popularly known as program trading . stock-index arbitrage -- buying or selling baskets of stocks while at the same time executing offsetting trades in stock-index futures or options . traders profit by trying to capture fleeting price discrepancies between stocks and the index futures or options . if stocks are temporarily `` cheaper '' than futures , for example , an arbitrager will buy stocks and sell futures . stock-index futures -- contracts to buy or sell the cash value of a stock index by a certain date . the cash value is determined by multiplying the index number by a specified amount . the most common program-trading vehicles are futures contracts on standard & poor 's 500-stock index -lrb- traded on the chicago mercantile exchange -rrb- ; the major market index , a 20-stock index that mimics the dow jones industrial average -lrb- traded on the chicago board of trade -rrb- ; and the s&p 100 options -lrb- traded on the chicago board options exchange , and based on 100 stocks selected from the s&p 500 -rrb- . stock-index options -- options give holders the right , but not the obligation , to buy -lrb- a call -rrb- or sell -lrb- a put -rrb- a specified amount of an underlying investment by a certin date at a preset price , known as the strike price . for stock indexes , the underlying investment may be a stock-index futures contract or the cash value of a stock index . for example , there are options on the s&p 500 futures contract and on the s&p 100 index . uptick -- an expression signifying that a transaction in a listed security occurred at a higher price than the previous transaction in that security .