boeing co. 's third-quarter profit leaped 68 % , but wall street 's attention was focused on the picket line , not the bottom line . in fact , the earnings report unfolded as representatives of the world 's no. 1 jet maker and the striking machinists union came back to the negotiating table for their first meeting in two weeks . doug hammond , the federal mediator in seattle , where boeing is based , said 0 the parties will continue to sit down daily until a new settlement proposal emerges or the talks break off again . despite the progress , boeing indicated that the work stoppage , now in its 27th day , will have `` a serious adverse impact '' on the current quarter . for the third quarter , net rose to $ 242 million , or $ 1.05 a share , from $ 144 million , or 63 cents a share . sales climbed 71 % to $ 6.36 billion from $ 3.72 billion as the company capitalized on the ravenous global demand for commercial airliners . because it 's impossible to gauge how long the walkout by 55,000 machinists rank and file will last , the precise impact on boeing 's sales , earnings , cash flow and short-term investment position could n't be determined . the investment community , however , strongly believes that the strike will be settled before there is any lasting effect on either boeing or its work force . the company 's total firm backlog of unfilled orders at sept. 30 stood at a mighty $ 69.1 billion , compared with $ 53.6 billion at the end of although the company could see fourth-quarter revenue shrink by nearly $ 5 billion if it is n't able to deliver any more planes this year , those dollars actually would just be deferred until 1990 . and the company is certain to get out some aircraft with just supervisors and other non-striking employees on hand . before the union rejected the company 's offer and the strike was launched with the graveyard shift of oct. 4 , boeing had been counting on turning 96 aircraft out the door in the present period . that included 21 of the company 's 747-400 jumbo jets , its most successful product . `` it 's not a pretty picture , '' said david smith , an analyst with raymond james & associates . `` but it would just mean a great first and second quarter next year . '' phillip brannon of merrill lynch capital markets added : `` you do n't want to minimize this and say 0 nobody is looking at it . but the strike has n't gone on long enough for boeing to lose business in any real sense . '' that 's the primary reason 0 the company 's share price has held up so well when , in mr. smith 's words , `` most companies would have unraveled '' by now . in new york stock exchange composite trading , boeing closed yesterday at $ 54.50 a share , off a scant 12.5 cents . still , boeing went through its normal verbal gymnastics and played up the downside . in a statement , chairman frank shrontz asserted that the company `` faces significant challenges and risks , '' on both its commercial and government contracts . for instance , he noted that spending on pentagon programs is shrinking , and boeing is either the prime contractor or a major supplier on many important military projects , including the b-2 stealth bomber , the v-22 osprey tilt-rotor aircraft and the air force 's next-generation tactical fighter . because of cost overruns on fixed-price military work , mr. shrontz said 0 , the company 's defense business will record `` a significant loss '' in 1989 . moreover , mr. shrontz added , production-rate increases that have been implemented on the 737 , 747 , 757 and 767 programs have resulted in `` serious work force skill-dilution problems . '' suppliers and subcontractors are experiencing heightened pressure to support delivery schedules . and , of course , there 's the unsteady labor situation . besides the machinists pact , accords representing 30,000 of the company 's engineering and technical employees in the puget sound and wichita , kan. , areas expire in early december . also , a contract with the united auto workers at the company 's helicopter plant in philadelphia expired oct. 15 . this contract , covering about 3,000 hourly production and maintenance workers , is being extended on a day-to-day basis . the machinists rejected a proposal featuring a 10 % base wage increase over the life of the three-year contract , plus bonuses of 8 % the first year and 3 % the second . on top of that , boeing would make cost-of-living adjustments projected to be 5 % for each year of the contract . the union , though , has called the offer `` insulting . '' the company reiterated yesterday that it 's willing to reconfigure the package , but not add to the substance of it . for the nine months , boeing 's net increased 36 % to $ 598 million , or $ 2.60 a share , from $ 440 million , or $ 1.92 a share . sales soared 28 % to $ 15.43 billion from $ 12.09 billion . in a separate matter , the justice department yesterday said 0 boeing agreed to pay the government $ 11 million to settle claims that the company provided inaccurate cost information to the air force while negotiating contracts to replace the aluminum skins on the kc-135 tanker aircraft . the settlement relates to four contracts negotiated from 1982 to 1985 , prosecutors said 0 . they added that the settlement is the culmination of a 2 1\/2-year investigation into the company 's aluminum pricing practices in connection with kc-135s . a boeing spokesman responded : `` all along the company has said 0 there was no grounds for criminal prosecution . that was borne out by the justice department 's decision '' to settle the case .