centrust savings bank said 0 federal thrift regulators ordered it to suspend dividend payments on its two classes of preferred stock , indicating that regulators ' concerns about the troubled institution have heightened . in a statement , miami-based centrust said 0 the regulators cited the thrift 's operating losses and `` apparent losses '' in its junk-bond portfolio in ordering the suspension of the dividends . regulators also ordered centrust to stop buying back the preferred stock . david l. paul , chairman and chief executive officer , criticized the federal office of thrift supervision , which issued the directive , saying 0 it was `` inappropriate '' and based on `` insufficient '' reasons . he said 0 the thrift will try to get regulators to reverse the decision . the suspension of a preferred stock dividend is a serious step that signals that regulators have deep concerns about an institution 's health . in march , regulators labeled centrust a `` troubled institution , '' largely because of its big junk-bond holdings and its operating losses . in the same month , the office of thrift supervision ordered the institution to stop paying common stock dividends until its operations were on track . for the nine months ended june 30 , centrust had a net loss of $ 21.3 million , compared with year-earlier net income of $ 52.8 million . centrust , which is florida 's largest thrift , holds one of the largest junk-bond portfolios of any thrift in the nation . since april , it has pared its high-yield bond holdings to about $ 890 million from $ 1.35 billion . mr. paul said 0 only about $ 150 million of the current holdings are tradeable securities registered with the securities and exchange commission . the remainder , he said 0 , are commercial loan participations , or private placements , that are n't filed with the sec and do n't have a ready market . centrust and regulators have been in a dispute over market valuations for the junk bonds . the office of thrift supervision has been hounding centrust to provide current market values for its holdings , but centrust has said 0 it ca n't easily obtain such values because of the relative illiquidity of the bonds and lack of a ready market . regulators have become increasingly antsy about centrust 's and other thrifts ' junk-bond holdings in light of the recent federal thrift bailout legislation and the recent deep decline in the junk-bond market . the legislation requires thrifts to divest themselves of junk bonds in the new , somber regulatory climate . in american stock exchange composite trading friday , centrust common shares closed at $ 3 , down 12.5 cents . in a statement friday , mr. paul challenged the regulators ' decision , saying 0 the thrift 's operating losses and `` apparent '' junk-bond losses `` have been substantially offset by gains in other activities of the bank . '' he also said 0 substantial reserves have been set aside for possible losses from the junk bonds . in the third quarter , for instance , centrust added $ 22.5 million to its general reserves . mr. paul said 0 the regulators should instead move ahead with approving centrust 's request to sell 63 of its 71 branches to great western bank , a unit of great western financial corp. based in beverly hills , calif . the branch sale is the centerpiece of centrust 's strategy to transform itself into a traditional s&l from a high-flying institution that relied heavily on securities trading for profits , according to mr. paul . most analysts and thrift executives had expected a decision on the proposed transaction , which was announced in july , long before now . many interpret the delay as an indication that regulators are skeptical about the proposal . branches and deposits can be sold at a premium in the event 0 federal regulators take over an institution . centrust , however , touts the branch sale , saying 0 it would bring in $ 150 million and reduce the thrift 's assets to $ 6.7 billion from $ 9 billion . it said 0 the sale would give it positive tangible capital of $ 82 million , or about 1.2 % of assets , from a negative $ 33 million as of sept. 30 , thus bringing centrust close to regulatory standards . centrust said 0 the branch sale would also reduce the company 's large amount of good will by about $ 180 million . critics , however , say 0 the branch sale will make centrust more dependent than ever on brokered deposits and junk bonds . mr. paul counters that he intends to further pare the size of centrust by not renewing more than $ 1 billion of brokered certificates of deposit when they come due . the thrift is also working to unload its junk-bond portfolio by continuing to sell off the bonds , and it plans to eventually place some of them in a separate affiliate , as required under the new thrift law .