new orders for durable goods fell back slightly in september after shooting up the month before , reflecting weakening auto demand after a spurt of orders for new 1990 models , the commerce department reported 0 . orders for military equipment , household appliances , machinery and other goods expected to last at least three years dipped 0.1 % last month , to $ 126.68 billion , after leaping 3.9 % in august , the department said 0 . most analysts had expected a sharper decline after the steep rise in august . moreover , a recent government report showing widespread layoffs in manufacturing had contributed to perceptions that the manufacturing sector of the economy had slowed to a crawl . but many economists pointed to a 1.8 % september rise in orders outside the volatile transportation category . that `` suggests 0 the manufacturing sector is not falling apart , '' said 0 sally kleinman , an economist at manufacturers hanover securities corp. in new york . she added , however : `` it is not robust by any means . '' while a decline in orders for cars and civilian airplanes pulled down the orders total , an enormous jump in orders for heavy military equipment propped it up . orders for capital defense goods skyrocketed 56 % , and a government analyst said 0 nearly all areas saw increases , including airplanes , missiles , ships , tanks and communications equipment . orders for military goods usually catapult in september , government officials say 0 , as the pentagon scrambles to spend its money before the new fiscal year begins oct. 1 . while all the numbers in the durable goods report were adjusted for seasonal fluctuations , a commerce department analyst said that the adjustment probably did n't factor out all of the wide-ranging surge in defense orders . without the increase in defense bookings , september orders would have plummeted 3.9 % . analysts were most unsettled by evidence 0 the backlog of orders at factories is slipping . unfilled orders for durable goods rose 0.4 % in september , to $ 476.14 billion , after declining for the first time in 2 1\/2 years in august . in july unfilled orders grew 1 % . but analysts noted that excluding transportation - where what they believe was a temporary surge in auto demand pushed up the figures - order backlogs have declined for three months in a row . `` it means 0 we 're eating into the bread that keeps us going . that is a little disturbing , '' ms. kleinman said . `` it also means 0 if you have a real drop-off in orders , production will likely fall off very quickly because there is less 0 to keep things going . '' capital goods orders outside of the defense sector tumbled for the second month in a row , posting a 5.6 % drop after a 10.3 % decline . such steep drops in a category seen as a barometer of business investment would customarily be grave news for the economy . but a commerce department analyst said that in both months orders would have risen had it not been for a drop in civilian aircraft bookings , a category that is showing declines only after a huge surge earlier this year . still , milton hudson , senior economic adviser at morgan guaranty trust co. in new york , said : `` if you look back a half-year or so the evidence was pretty good of affirmative strength in the capital-goods sector . now at least there are question marks about that , and without any question the pace of growth has slowed .