when thomas w. wathen went big league last year , he acquired a treasure-trove of americana along with a well-known but ailing security business : pinkerton 's inc . there was a wanted poster offering `` rewards for the arrest of express and train robbers frank james and jesse w. james '' and the original pinkerton 's logo with an open eye and the inscription `` we never sleep , '' which inspired the phrase `` private eye . '' then there were two gold watches once owned by allan pinkerton , who founded the company in chicago in 1850 . but there were supposed to be three , mr. wathen 's company claims 0 . the missing watch is emblematic of the problems 0 mr. wathen encountered in building his closely held california plant protection security service into the largest detective and security agency in the u.s. through acquisitions . the ever-optimistic mr. wathen has learned that while acquiring a big brand-name company can be a shortcut to growth , it can also bring a host of unforeseen problems . `` we cleared out a lot of rats ' nests , '' says the 60-year-old security veteran . mr. wathen , who started his career as an air force investigator and worked as a security officer for several large companies , built his california plant protection from a tiny mom-and-pop security patrol firm here in the san fernando valley . he joined the firm in 1963 and bought it from the owners the next year . over the next 20 years , california plant protection opened 125 offices around the country . yet although california plant protection was netting bigger and bigger clients -- the firm provided security for the 1984 summer olympics in los angeles -- it still did n't have the name recognition of pinkerton 's . so when american brands inc. decided to sell the unit in 1987 as part of a divestiture of its food and security industries operations , mr. wathen saw a chance to accomplish several objectives . he decided 0 he could easily merge pinkerton 's operations with his own while slashing overhead costs because the two already operated in many of the same cities . he could acquire a staff of loyal pinkerton 's employees , many of whom had spent their entire careers with the firm , he could eliminate a competitor and he could get the name recognition 0 he 'd wanted . mr. wathen also relished the chance to demonstrate 0 an entrepreneur like himself , who 'd spent his whole career in the security business , could run pinkerton 's better than an unfocused conglomerate or investment banker . `` the security business is my favorite subject . i love this business , '' he says . `` most of the lbo guys do n't know how to run a business anyway . '' but there were hitches , not the least of which was that , mr. wathen says , he proceeded almost blindly in doing the $ 95 million acquisition , which was completed in january 1988 . `` we were n't allowed to do any due diligence because of competitive reasons . if we had , it might have scared us off , '' he says . five years of rapid expansion under american brands , with an emphasis on marketing the agency 's services instead of improving them , had hurt pinkerton 's profits , mr. wathen claims 0 . he says 0 his team could n't tell whether accounts receivable had been paid or not . pinkerton 's had locked itself into low-price contracts to win new business , with no hope of profitability until the contracts expired , he adds 0 . and regional offices were `` egregiously overstaffed , '' he claims 0 . one office had 19 people doing the work of three , `` and half of the employees had company automobiles . '' american brands declined to comment on mr. wathen 's accusations . the acquisition combined the country 's second-largest security company , pinkerton 's , with 1987 sales of $ 410 million , and the fourth largest , california plant protection , with $ 250 million in sales , creating the industry 's biggest firm , which took on the pinkerton 's name . even after divesting itself of $ 120 million of unprofitable business , the new pinkerton 's will have sales of about $ 610 million this year and operating profit roughly double the industry average of 2%-3 % of sales , says 0 lloyd greif of sutro & co. in los angeles , which arranged the pinkerton 's acquisition . mr. wathen says 0 his turnaround strategy has been simple : just hack away at the fat . he began by closing 120 of the combined companies ' 260 offices in two months , eliminating about 31 % of the company 's 2,500-person adminstrative staff , including more than 100 sales positions . he shut down the company 's tony new york headquarters . pinkerton 's world headquarters today is a nondescript , two-story office building across the street from the small van nuys airport . next , mr. wathen raised pinkerton 's rates , which were 75-cents-an-hour lower than california plant protection 's average rate of around $ 8.63 . and he got rid of low-margin businesses that just were n't making money for the company . mr. wathen , who says 0 pinkerton 's had a loss of nearly $ 8 million in 1987 under american brands , boasts that he 's made pinkerton 's profitable again . but mr. wathen 's team still must pay down about $ 82 million of long-term bank debt from the acquisition within the next four years . last year , earnings of the combined companies did n't cover debt service and pinkerton 's was forced to borrow $ 20 million of subordinated debt . `` we would n't have had to refinance if a lot of the problems had n't been there , '' mr. wathen says . this year , mr. wathen says 0 the firm will be able to service debt and still turn a modest profit . now pinkerton 's could become entangled in a protracted legal fracas with its former parent . the company recently filed suit in state court in los angeles against american brands , seeking at least $ 40 million in damages from the old greenwich , conn.-based company . the suit alleges that american brands misrepresented the financial condition of pinkerton 's before the sale , failed to disclose pending lawsuits and material contracts in which pinkerton 's was in default , had n't registered the pinkerton 's name and trademark in the united kingdom and did n't tell california plant protection about some labor controversies . `` we have previously had discussions with representatives of pinkerton 's inc. concerning the -lcb- sale of the company -rcb- and we concluded that we did not have liability under the contract , '' says american brands . `` as this is now a litigation matter , we have no further comment . '' and then there 's the case of the missing gold watch . the lawsuit alleges that an inventory of pinkerton 's memorabilia disclosed that one of the watches had n't been forked over by american brands . `` american brand 's failure to surrender the gold watch has damaged new pinkerton 's in an amount as yet 0 -lcb- to be -rcb- determined and deprived it of a valuable artifact for which it had bargained , '' the suit charges . the key to pinkerton 's future will be sticking to what it does best -- being a security company , says 0 mr. wathen . the company is also renewing its emphasis on investigations , particularly undercover investigations for corporations . although investigations now account for only about 5 % of pinkerton 's total revenue , that side of the business has traditionally been the more `` glamorous '' of the two and it carries historical and sentimental value . -lrb- author dashiell hammett , who wrote `` the maltese falcon , '' was a former pinkerton 's detective . -rrb- american brands `` just had a different approach , '' mr. wathen says 0 . `` their approach did n't work ; mine is .