when president bush travels to costa rica today , he 'll go with little of the fanfare that accompanies many of his foreign travels . but the two-day trip still has managed to fuel controversy over his administration 's policies in central america . some conservatives say 0 mr. bush should n't make the trip , during which he will participate in costa rica 's celebration of 100 years of democracy . these critics object to mr. bush 's participation in a meeting that includes nicaraguan president daniel ortega among the guests . in addition , they argue 0 he wo n't help washington 's standing in the region by trumpeting the u.s. commitment to democracy less than a month after his administration played an ineffectual role in the failed coup attempt in panama . `` i believe 0 it will do more damage than good because it will legitimize people like daniel ortega , '' says curtin windsor , who served as u.s. ambassador to costa rica during the reagan administration . mr. windsor , among other analysts connected to the conservative heritage foundation , fears 0 the gathering of 18 leaders , mostly from central american nations , will force mr. bush `` to explain and redeem himself '' in the wake of charges that the u.s. failed to do enough to aid the removal of panamanian dictator manuel noriega . at the same time , liberal and moderate democrats note the irony of mr. bush 's joining a celebration of costa rican democracy at a time 0 his administration has sought sharp cuts in u.s. aid to the tiny country . the administration proposed only $ 57 million in so-called economic support funds for costa rica this year , down from the $ 90 million 0 the u.s. provided last year . the administration said 0 improvements in costa rica 's economic condition warrant the cut in aid , which the country uses mainly to make payments on its $ 4.5 billion foreign debt . but costa rican officials argue that the recent drop in coffee prices , combined with the country 's continuing struggle to reinvigorate its economy , make the support as necessary as ever . `` we are crossing the river and we need a little more help to get to the other side , '' said rodrigo sotela , an economic affairs specialist at the costa rican embassy in washington . democrats argue that costa rica deserves more assistance for the same reason that mr. bush is attending the celebration this weekend : to reward the country for its stability in a region wracked with turmoil and for its efforts to promote peace in nicaragua . however , peace efforts by costa rican president oscar arias have n't always helped the country 's cause in washington . mr. arias 's long-time refusal to support the u.s. 's campaign against leftist nicaragua earned him the ire of the reagan white house . and more recently , he insisted on signing a five-nation agreement intended to disarm nicaragua 's u.s.-backed contra rebels faster than the bush administration would prefer . `` i think 0 bush 's going there is a helpful sign , '' said sen. terry sanford -lrb- d. , n.c . -rrb- a member of the foreign relations committee who pushed to provide costa rica about the same amount of aid as it received last year . lawmakers in both houses support the higher level . administration officials defend mr. bush 's decision to make the trip . while they acknowledge 0 the president will attend several meals and a working session also attended by mr. ortega , they insist that mr. bush wo n't be extending the nicaraguan leader any special courtesies . the administration also made clear its continuing distate for the leftist nicaraguan government in recent days , endorsing a package of electoral aid to the nicaraguan opposition , renewing the u.s. trade embargo against the country and continuing to complain that the country supports rebel groups in the region . officials also insist 0 mr. bush will use the trip to highlight his own initiatives for pushing democracy in the region , fighting illegal drugs and assisting the less developed countries . `` let me say 0 there is a symbolic component to this trip , '' secretary of state james baker told reporters wednesday . `` there wo n't be any formal resolutions or communiques , i do n't think 0 . but we still see this as an opportunity to discuss many , many very important issues .