this is in response to atsushi kageyama 's manager 's journal , `` looking for the real thing in sony '' -lrb- editorial page , oct. 2 -rrb- . though i agree with many of mr. kageyama 's comments , i believe 0 he points the gun in the wrong direction : it is n't the americans who must be criticized for not understanding the japanese culture , but the japanese who insist on forcing their culture on americans . the japanese want us to accept their culture , but they refuse to accept the american culture . japanese managers ca n't expect americans to behave as if they were japanese ; instead , they must manage americans as americans . americans are expected to conform to the japanese culture when in japan . what is wrong with expecting the japanese to conform to american norms when they locate here ? americans place native or native speakers in charge of subsidiaries overseas . european multinationals do likewise ; even in america , their affiliates are usually run by american managers . but the japanese insist upon japanese managers everywhere 0 they set up shop . do the japanese feel so superior that they can not find capable american managers ? paul a. herbig indiana university bloomington , ind . mr. kageyama suggests that kotobuki electronics industries workers were having difficulty understanding their foreign bosses ' perspective . while mr. kageyama does an excellent job of explaining the differences , both cultural and philosophic , i question his perspective . would he suggest that employees of an american company doing business in japan conform to their new bosses ' culture and philosophy ? obviously not . thus the conclusion is that the burden rests with management to understand\/adopt the culture and philosophy of the country in which they are operating . the workers can be motivated , and the company reach its full potential , only when management embraces the employees ' perspective . a. lawton langford president municipal code corp . tallahassee , fla . i believe 0 mr. kageyama left out one major aspect of japanese culture that permeated his piece : the belief in the superiority of japanese culture and behavior vs. others . a manager should not have to rebut the opinions of his employees about the style of his management . instead , he should listen to see how that criticism can be used constructively to advance his objective of carrying out a set of tasks through the efforts of his subordinates . japanese culture vs. american culture is irrelevant . the key is how a manager from one culture can motivate employees from another . for mr. kageyama to argue that american employees must passively accept a direct imposition of the japanese way of doing things is outright cultural chauvinism of the first order . the japanese are neglecting the opportunity to synthesize a new corporate culture based on a fusion of the best aspects of both national cultures . mr. kageyama is accurate to deny a specific anti-american bias . it is more difficult to deny a general bigotry in seeing things only the japanese way . when the response to criticism is only a better explanation of policies without altering the reasons for the criticism , i am convinced that mr. kageyama has still failed to attack the root cause of the problem and is simply treating symptoms . norman l. owens tempe , ariz .