the turmoil on wall street may benefit some retailers attempting to lead leveraged buy-outs of their specialty and department-store chains , investment bankers and retailers said 0 . managers at five chains have said in recent weeks that they intend to bid for their companies . the chains include bloomingdale 's , owned by campeau corp. , toronto ; saks fifth avenue and marshall field 's , owned by b.a.t industries plc , london ; and b. altman & co. and sakowitz inc. , owned by hooker corp. , which is now being managed by a court-appointed provisional liquidator . hooker is based in sydney , australia . the combination of so many chains available for sale , the recent failures of such retailing lbo 's as miller & rhoads inc. and declining investor confidence will drive down prices , retailing observers said 0 . `` the pricing will become more realistic , which should help management , '' said bruce rosenthal , a new york investment banker with nathan s. jonas & co . `` investors are n't going to be throwing money at any of the proposed lbos , but doing deals on the basis of ridiculous assumptions never made sense , either . '' earlier this year , bankers and other investors were willing to provide financing because they assumed 0 there would be major gains in both profitability and sales , mr. rosenthal added 0 . those days are over now , he believes 0 . `` competition from third parties who have cash and are prepared to buy has always existed and will continue , '' added mr. rosenthal . `` but when prices were crazy , it was even harder to do an lbo . bankers believed in the greater-fool theory that says 0 somebody else is always willing to pay more . this is no longer true today . '' at saks fifth avenue , paul leblang , senior vice president , marketing , agreed that lower prices will help his management team in their proposed lbo . `` having to take on less debt would certainly be an advantage , '' said mr. leblang . `` it would also help us in our search for equity partners . to make an lbo work , now we are going to need more than just junk bonds . '' none believe 0 the proposed management lbos will be easy to complete , especially at b. altman & co. , which is under chapter 11 bankruptcy protection . not only could the wall street gyrations damp christmas sales if consumers lose confidence in the economy , but potential junk-bond buyers are sure to demand even stronger covenants and greater management equity participation . further , many institutions today holding troubled retailers ' debt securities will be reticent to consider additional retailing investments . `` it 's called bad money driving out good money , '' said one retailing observer . `` institutions that usually buy retail paper have to be more concerned . '' however , the lower prices 0 these retail chains are now expected to bring should make it easier for managers to raise the necessary capital and pay back the resulting debt . in addition , the fall selling season has generally been a good one , especially for those retailers dependent on apparel sales for the majority of their revenues . `` what 's encouraging about this is that retail chains will be sold on the basis of their sales and earnings , not liquidation values , '' said joseph e. brooks , chairman and chief executive officer of ann taylor inc. , a specialty chain . `` retailers who had good track records of producing profits will have a better chance to buy back their companies . '' still , most retailing observers expect that all the proposed retailing lbos will depend partly on the sale of junk bonds , a market already in tumult , in part because of concerns associated with bonds issued by the federated and allied units of campeau . `` prices for retail chains are lower today than they were last week , which will help management , '' said gilbert harrison , chairman of financo inc. , an investment-banking firm specializing in retailing acquisitions . `` but the hurdle of financing still has to be resolved . potential bondholders will either look for greater equity participation on behalf of management , or insist 0 the equity component of the deals be substantially greater than in the past .