environmental concerns are beginning to have as much influence in oil-industry spending plans as the price of crude does . in the wake of the exxon valdez spill in march , new governmental drilling bans are sharply curtailing exploration in promising locations offshore and in alaska . at the same time , moves toward tighter air-quality standards are spurring interest in lighter or alternative fuels that do n't pollute as much as fuel refined from `` heavy '' crudes , generally high in sulfur . over the years , the world 's stream of oil has been growing heavier . so the scramble is on for lighter crudes globally , and for natural gas in the u.s. . recently saudi arabia and venezuela , traditional heavy-crude producers , have boasted of new finds of light , low-sulfur oil by their national oil companies . venezuela has also earmarked $ 200 million in new money for light-crude exploration . and some oil companies are trying to lock in future supplies . typical is ente nazionale idrocarburi , italy 's state-owned energy company , which not long ago acquired through its agip oil subsidiary a 5 % share in the consortium accounting for half of nigeria 's oil output . agip already has an oil stake in libya . both countries produce high-quality , low-sulfur crudes especially suited to making high-octane motor fuel at minimum refining cost . franco reviglio , eni chairman , looks for sweeping structural change in the oil industry -- he calls it a `` revolution '' requiring huge investments -- as a result of environmental issues . he made a special trip to examine u.s. environmental trends because they are often followed in europe . eni needs to know what 's coming as it prepares to spend some $ 1.3 billion on upgrading its refineries , he says 0 . oil companies world-wide will have `` to spend a lot of money for the cleaner fuels that will be required , '' says 0 john h. lichtblau , the president of the petroleum industry research foundation . it will go for work ranging from refinery modification to changes in the distribution system , including the way 0 service stations pump fuel into cars . in the u.s. , the search for oil had been headed toward environmentally sensitive areas believed to have vast reserves . alaska 's arctic national wildlife refuge alone is thought to hide more than three billion barrels of oil . until the tanker spill , big oil was slowly convincing authorities 0 it could safely produce from such places . now the wildlife refuge has been closed to the industry , possibly for years . similarly , a group of companies led by chevron corp. has been unable to pump oil found off the california coast in the early 1980s . a huge production system built in the sea off santa barbara and ashore is sitting idle . but the push for cleaner fuels is increasing the attractiveness of natural gas . more than half the domestic drilling now under way is for gas , partly on the assumption that demand will rise for a fuel that is cleaner to burn than either oil or coal . activity has revived in the largest u.s. gas-producing regions , such as the gulf of mexico . santa fe international corp. , which is owned by kuwait -lrb- and is n't related to santa fe southern pacific 's unit -rrb- , is stepping up development of a well off texas ' matagorda island where it found gas in 1987 . `` we could have sat on it longer , but the impetus is to get the gas to the marketplace , '' says richard poole , senior scout for santa fe international . `` we 're trying to get it on line as soon as possible now . '' this month , exxon corp. announced plans for a 400-day project drilling for gas about five miles underground in the anadarko basin of western oklahoma -- the deepest drilling project in the u.s. . exxon will use a parker drilling co. rig built in 1981 that can go down 9 1\/2 miles .