while friday 's plunging stock market prompted new fears about the economy 's prospects , a little-known indicator that has faithfully foreshadowed the economy 's ups and downs by exceptionally long lead times points to a sustained rise in overall business activity . the barometer , developed by analysts at columbia university 's center for international business cycle research here , reached a record high of 223.0 in august , the latest month available , and the columbia researchers estimate that it has moved even higher since then . the latest reading of 223.0 was up from 222.3 in july and 215.3 as recently as march . the august rise marked the fifth straight monthly gain for the indicator , which uses the 1967 average as a base of 100 . in contrast , the commerce department 's widely followed index of leading indicators , while up in august , has fallen repeatedly since reaching a high early this year . its ragged behavior through much of 1989 has prompted some forecasters to anticipate the start of a new recession perhaps before year 's end . but the far stronger showing of the columbia index `` makes a recession any time soon highly unlikely , '' says 0 geoffrey h. moore , the director of the columbia facility . a leading authority on the business cycle , mr. moore also is a member of the business cycle dating group , the panel of private economists that decides for the government when expansions and recessions begin and end . the group normally convenes only when a change in the economy 's general course seems likely . `` no meeting is scheduled because the expansion shows no sign of going off the tracks , '' mr. moore reports . based largely on the recent strength in their index , called the long leading indicator , the columbia analysts foresee uninterrupted economic growth through the rest of this year and next year as well . they expect a 2.6 % rise in 1990 in the gross national product , after adjustment for inflation . underlying this optimism is the index 's longstanding ability to signal recessions or recoveries , as the case may be , by substantially greater periods than the commerce department 's index of leading indicators . over the full post-world war ii era , the columbia index , on the average , has entered sustained declines 14 months before the onset of recessions and turned up eight months before recoveries . the comparable lead times for the commerce index , whose components include the stock market , are far shorter -- 10 months before recessions and only three months before recoveries . the columbia economists also have reconstructed how the long leading index would have behaved , had it existed , in 1929 , before the stock market crash in october that ushered in the great depression . the indicator reached a peak in january 1929 and then fell steadily up to and through the crash . `` it was an entirely different pattern from what we 're seeing now , '' mr. moore says . a major source of the recent strength in the long leading indicator has been the performance of the dow jones corporate bond-price index , which is not a part of the commerce index . in august , the bond measure was at its highest monthly average since early 1987 . it also rose last friday , while the stock market sagged . other components of the long leading indicator include a ratio of prices to unit labor costs in manufacturing industries , the m2 version of the money supply , adjusted for inflation , and the volume of new home-building permits . notably absent from the columbia index is the stock market , which mr. moore says 0 `` is simply no longer such a good indicator of the economy 's long-range prospects , though it still is useful for anticipating some short-run twists and turns . '' as recently as 1975 , the stock market -- as reflected in the standard & poor 's index of 500 common stocks -- was rated by the national bureau of economic research as the best of the 12 leading indicators that then made up the commerce index . it was assigned a mark of 80 out of a possible 100 , compared with scores ranging as low as 69 for the other components . the stock market has lost some precursory power , analysts at the columbia center claim 0 , because of the growing impact of international developments . `` stocks have become more sensitive to factors not directly tied to the domestic economy , '' mr. moore says , citing the exchange rate for the dollar on currency markets , the foreign-trade balance and inflows of foreign capital . he also feels that the rise of such computer-based practices as program trading has diminished the stock market 's relevancy to the economic outlook .