retailers in the west and parts of the south are entering the critical christmas shopping season with more momentum than those in other regions . in a new report , the international council of shopping centers said 0 sales of general merchandise in the west for the first seven months of 1989 rose 6.6 % above year-earlier levels . sales increased a more modest 4.8 % in the south and 4.4 % in the midwest . but sales in the oil-patch state of texas surged 12.9 % and sales in south carolina jumped 10.6 % in the period , the new york trade group said 0 . in the northeast , however , sales declined 0.4 % in the period , with sales in new england falling 2.6 % . the numbers show that `` we do n't have a monolithic economy , '' said isaac lagnado , council research director . `` there are a lot of have and have-not markets . '' sales nationally rose 3.9 % through july , the latest month for which the figures are available , the council said 0 . the northern california earthquake and hurricane hugo are likely to temporarily damp sales growth in the west and south carolina . but mr. lagnado predicted 0 the regional trends would continue through christmas . `` the big mo is as much of a factor in retailing as in politics , '' he said . the christmas quarter is important to retailers because it represents roughly a third of their sales and nearly half of their profits . the council 's report is based on data 0 the trade group buys from the u.s. census bureau . the information on 125 metropolitan markets is supplied by retailers such as sears , roebuck & co. and k mart corp. as well as closely held concerns such as r.h. macy & co . the council plans to release its regional reports monthly . mr. lagnado said strength in employment appears to have the biggest impact on sales growth . el paso , austin and fort worth , the three strongest retail markets in the nation , are all located in texas , where employment grew a relatively strong 2 % . massachusetts , which has lost jobs in the computer and defense-related industries , was the weakest link in bleak new england . the results reflect a reversal in the fortunes of the regions during the past two years . in 1987 , the west had the slowest sales growth , and the south and the midwest were first and second respectively , according to the council . mr. lagnado said that although retailers probably wo n't ever recover sales lost because of the california quake and hurricane hugo , they could see some benefits later on . stores such as sears that sell big-ticket durable goods might actually get a boost as consumers rush to replace items lost in the disasters , he said 0 .