a frozen mountaintop in tibet may offer an important clue about whether the earth is warming perilously . researchers at ohio state university and lanzhou institute of glaciology and geocryology in china have analyzed samples of glacial ice in tibet and say 0 temperatures there have been significantly higher on average over the past half-century than in any similar period in the past 10,000 years . the ice samples are an important piece of evidence supporting theories that the earth has warmed considerably in recent times , largely because of pollutants in the air , and will warm far more in the century ahead . a substantial warming would melt some of the earth 's polar ice caps , raising the level of the oceans and causing widespread flooding of heavily populated coastal areas . `` if you can use data to reconstruct what happened in the past , you have much more confidence in predictions for the future , '' said lonnie thompson , a research scientist at ohio state who dug for and analyzed the ice samples . to compare temperatures over the past 10,000 years , researchers analyzed the changes in concentrations of two forms of oxygen . these measurements can indicate temperature changes , researchers said 0 , because the rates of evaporation of these oxygen atoms differ as temperatures change . analysis of ice from the dunde ice cap , a glacial plateau in tibet 17,000 feet above sea level , show that average temperatures were higher in 1937-87 than in any other 50-year period since before the last ice age , mr. thompson said 0 . some climate models project that interior regions of asia would be among the first 0 to heat up in a global warming because they are far from oceans , which moderate temperature changes . but the ice-core samples are n't definitive proof that the so-called greenhouse effect will lead to further substantial global heating , mr. thompson acknowledged 0 . according to greenhouse theories , increased carbon dioxide emissions , largely caused by burning of fossil fuels , will cause the earth to warm up because carbon dioxide prevents heat from escaping into space . skeptics say that if that 's the case , temperatures should have risen fairly uniformly over the past century , reflecting the increase in carbon dioxide . instead , the dunde ice-core record shows increasing temperatures from 1900 through the early 1950s , decreasing temperatures from the late 1950s through the mid-1970s , then higher temperatures again through last year . other temperature data show similar unexplained swings . `` climate varies drastically due to natural causes , '' said mr. thompson . but he said 0 ice samples from peru , greenland and antarctica all show substantial signs of warming .